The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
WARRIORS midfielder Thabani Kamusoko has predicted a tough encounter between Zimbabwe and Zambia in the 2021 AFCON qualifier in Lusaka in a fortnight. The cross-Zambezi River rivals meet at the giant National Heroes Stadium in Lusaka in what will be the pair’s second game of the qualifiers. Kamusoko, who plies his trade with Zesco United in the Zambian Premier League, has warned his teammates to brace for a bruising battle in Lusaka. “Both teams know each other very well and it will be a tightly-contested fixture,’’ said Kamusoko. Zimbabwe and Zambia last collided in an AFCON qualification in 1993. “The National Heroes Stadium is ideal for this tie. Its turf is perfect, I once played there when we were participating in the CAF Champions League while I was still plying my trade in Tanzania,’’ said Kamusoko. “What I know is we have to be very careful against Chipolopolo for they have an array of good stars who can beat any team on this continent. “That their league is now a bit more competitive than ours, as evidenced by their performances in the CAF inter-club competitions, is proof that they can be tough opponents.” Kamusoko said Zimbabwe can still win the match. “As Warriors, they also regard us very highly due to what has happened in matches involving the two countries in the past,’’ he said. “That rivalry is well documented and the match will be super-charged. They have good players but we also have many of them in our ranks.” Kamusoko is part of Zimbabwe caretaker coach Joey Antipas’ squad which was trimmed from 32 to 24 on Wednesday. They are expected to go into camp on Monday to start their preparations for 2021 AFCON qualifiers Group H opener against Botswana at the National Sports Stadium on November 15. The match is scheduled to start at 6pm. Kamusoko, who was part of the Warriors squad for this year’s AFCON finals in Egypt, joined Zesco from Tanzanian giants Young Africans in July this year. The deal was brokered by former CAPS United midfielder Butler Masango.