The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
CAPS United legends in the United Kingdom yesterday donated football kits to several academies at Harare Sports Club.
The CAPS United Legends UK treasurer, Timothy Chirozvani, who arrived in the country on Saturday, handed over the kits worth more than £400 to more than 15 academies. The kits featured soccer balls, cons, bibs and hurdles. The beneficiaries include the Dynamos Under-18 team, Alois Bunjira’s Albun Academy, Stanley Chirambadare’s Revival Academy, Thomas Banda’s MC 15 Academy, Jimmy Malomo’s La Sakubva in Mutare, Friendly Academy, Howard Primary School, Peter Nkomo’s Goalkeepers Academy in Bulawayo and Beitbridge’s Dulibadzimu Primary School. Dynamos Under-18 were included by virtue of being last year’s Under-18 champions in the Harare Junior League. Chirozvani said he looks forward to seeing some talented footballers emerging from their efforts. “I am so happy to be back home and donating these kits to academies who carry the future of our football,’’ he said.
“We are grateful, as CAPS United Legends UK, to give back to the communities. “We have managed to identify several academies and I believe this will go a long way in identifying some stars.
“We look forward to producing more talented footballers and academies are the way to go as we have a good example of Methembe Ndlovu whose Bantu Rovers project is bearing fruits. “We hope we can have more (Marvelous) Nakambas from these projects.” Chirozvani also saluted teams who still have vibrant junior sides.
“It is good that we still have some clubs who have junior clubs like Dynamos who have an U-18 side who were beneficiaries,’’ he said. “There is need to give the youngsters a chance from grassroots level.”
Bunjira, the former CAPS United and Zimbabwe forward, said he was happy to receive such support. “I am so happy to be part of the beneficiaries and this is going to go a long way in helping the youngsters I am training.
“There is need for support, from both former players and all interested in the development of football in the country.
“The kits we received will go a long way in developing the players and I am thankful to the team for the good gesture and we will put this to good work,” said Bunjira. Chirambadare said academies could not do them on their own.
“It is difficult to part ways with money these day but the Legends felt otherwise and have donated,’’ he said.
“We are happy that they did not chose the beneficiaries in a wrong manner but they included everyone. The initiative is the brainchild of former CAPS United skipper Joe “Kode” Mugabe who serves as the organisation’s chairperson. Other members of the executive include Frank “Dealer” Nyamukuta, Artwell Mabhiza, Cannisius Tongesai, Tichaona Nyenda, Leonard Chirozvani, Sam Huwa and Charles Chikeya.