The Herald Mthabisi Tshuma Bulawayo Bureau ZANU-PF Bulawayo Province has started fund-raising for the 18th Annual People’s Conference to be held at Goromonzi High School in Mashonaland East from December 10-15. The provincial fund-raising committee, which includes senior party members and youths, has hit the ground running in a bid to achieve the expected target. The province is expecting to raise $500 000 and has set up a very strong and able committee to achieve the target. Bulawayo provincial fund-raising committee chairman, Central Committee member Cde Charles Chiponda, said they had started sensitising members and the Bulawayo business community on the need to make the conference, which is expected to attract 7 000 delegates, a success. “The success of the conference will be based on the support received from our stakeholders in Bulawayo in particular and the country at large, thus we are calling on support from everyone,” said Cde Chiponda. Speaking at the same event, Zanu-PF Politburo member Cde Absalom Sikhosana urged the nation to rally behind the conference as that is where the party deliberates on national issues. “As a province we have started embarking on various fund-raising activities which we hope are going to bring good results,” said Cde Chiponda. during a fund-raising meeting at a city hotel on Tuesday. “Our fund-raising strategy focuses on raising funds from companies, individuals, supporters, sympathisers and party members. It is on this premise that as a province we are appealing for donations whether in cash or kind.” A provincial fund-raising dinner is expected to be held on December 6 at a venue to be announced. Speaking at the same event, Zanu-PF Politburo member Cde Absalom Sikhosana urged the nation to rally behind the conference as that is where the party deliberates on national issues. “I am calling on the entire Bulawayo community to support this noble cause . . . I have confidence in the provincial committee that they will meet the target,” said Cde Sikhosana.