The Herald Sports Reporter ZPC Kariba . . . . . . . . (0) Highlanders . . . . . . . (1) 1 GIANTS Highlanders maintained their dream run in the Chibuku Super Cup after they stormed into their first ever final of the tournament with a hard-fought win over a 10-man ZPC Kariba at Barbourfields yesterday. Warriors forward Prince Dube continued with his scoring form when he grabbed the only goal of the match 35 minutes into the game. Dube reclaimed his place in the team yesterday after missing Bosso’s last two league games because of the highly contested red card he ironically picked in a game against ZPC Kariba two weeks ago. And yesterday it was ZPC Kariba who finished with 10 men after defender Ian Nekati was sent off with less than 10 minutes of regulation time remaining. ZPC Kariba were technically the home team at Barbourfields, according to the tournament organisers. Tinashe Makanda could have given Bosso a second goal but his 41st minute effort was disallowed for off-side while his other effort was also denied by the crossbar with 15 minutes remaining. Highlanders coach Pieter Hendrik de Jongh paid tribute to the Bosso fans who have been behind the team. The Bosso faithful have strongly rallied behind with the Bulawayo giants ever since they began their resurrection which coincided with the arrival of the Dutchman. Highlanders beat Dynamos 1-0 in the first round before thumping FC Platinum 3-0 in the quarter-finals. After the win over ZPC Kariba yesterday, De Jongh yesterday said his team deserved to be in the final after negotiating a tough route, with the help of their “12th man” — the Bosso fans. “I think we have the best fans in the country. I like the way how our fans are so passionate. They are so passionate; it has been perfect today. I hope a lot of fans come to the stadium and when the fans come they are our 12th man. “We deserve to go to the final because we win against Dynamos away, we win a perfect game against FC Platinum and today we beat ZPC Kariba. There is no denying that we deserve to be in the final,” said de Jongh. Bosso will now face 2016 winners Ngezi Platinum Stars in the final. Ngezi Platinum Stars are aiming a second Chibuku Super Cup silverware after edging Harare City 7-6 in a penalty-shoot-out following a 1-1 stalemate at the end of regulation time at Baobab on Saturday. Winners of this tournament will get the ticket to represent Zimbabwe in the CAF Confederation Cup next year.