The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
FOR the first time in five years, two teams from the Zimbabwe National Army will clash in the Premiership when Cranborne Bullets join the big league from next season. They are under the guidance of Nesbert “Yabo” Saruchera. In fact, 2020 will be a good year for the uniformed forces as Hwahwa, who were demoted in 2014, are set to mark their return to top-flight football alongside another Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services side from Mutare, Tenax. The tenacity of the ZNA teams has been credited to ZNA Commander, Edzai Absolom Chanyuka Chimonyo and his predecessors, who all have demonstrated a special interest in sport. “Sport in the army is actually part of training and excellence. It comes from the Commander’s training directive whereby he sets targets to be met every year in different disciplines,” said ZNA spokesperson, Alphios Makotore. “Remember, early in the year he called the Black Rhinos players and officials and had a chat with them on the need to deliver. “The Commander has a personal interest in sport and on issues to do with excellence. So these are results, Cranborne Bullets have been promoted. “When the news came, there were celebrations everywhere from the junior officers to the Commander Two Brigade. In fact, it was great news to the whole ZNA fraternity. “We derive pleasure in seeing our teams, not only in football but in various sporting disciplines, doing well. We just wish Cranborne Bullets the best in the Premiership.” The last time the league had two army teams was in 2014 when Rhinos got relegated with Buffaloes also getting the chop the following season. Makotore said the army sides always have their models of funding which keep them going. Their wage bill, most of the time, is kept suppressed by the fact that most of their players are members of the uniformed forces, who are already on their payroll. Rhinos are one of the teams sponsored by telecommunication giants NetOne. Earlier this year the club got a package of $170 000 from their sponsors, who also unveiled kits the team has been using this season. “It’s not something new that we have two teams in the Premier League. Our other teams like Tongogora and Buffaloes have played in the league before,’’ said Makotore. “These teams have means to raise their own resources and I am sure they can survive even in these tough times. ‘’They enjoy a lot of support from their own membership. “We have also seen sponsors coming in to support these teams and it shows the brand is being appreciated.