The Herald Talent Chimutambgi and Tanyaradzwa Mutizwa The Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) will continue discharging its duties effectively and fulfil its mandate in line with the dictates of the Constitution to create an enabling environment for economic development. This was said by Defence and War Veterans Affairs Minister Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri in a speech read on her behalf by her ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Ambassador Mark Grey Marongwe, during the graduation ceremony of junior staff course number 36 at Manyame Air Base yesterday. “The Ministry of Defence and War Veterans Affairs considers this endeavour of training of staff in the ZDF as one of the components critical for its effective fulfilment of its constitutional mandate prescribed in Section 212 of the Constitution of the Republic of Zimbabwe; which is to protect Zimbabwe, its people, its national security and interests, territorial integrity and uphold the Constitution,” said Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri. “The knowledge imparted in courses of this nature also empower the ZDF to maintain peace and stability and contribute to the creation and sustenance of an environment conducive for equitable economic development. “The mandate of the ZDF extends to civic duties, that include rendering support to the ZRP in the maintenance of law and order, which they do under command of the ZRP and assisting the Department of Civil Protection, which is charged with coordination and management of disasters and hazards.” Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri applauded the ZDF Special Forces for the critical role they played in rescuing thousands of marooned civilians, providing food and medicines, as well as repairing roads and other infrastructure after Cyclone Idai hit Manicaland and Masvingo this year. She said the ZDF sailed through in training programmes despite the current harsh economic conditions exacerbated by the illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe by the United States and the European Union. “Despite the current tough economic conditions, occasioned largely by the imposition of sanctions against Zimbabwe by Britain and its allies, the ministry has gone out of its way to ensure that resources     are availed to ZDF training and personnel development programmes,” said Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri. The course, the second since the commencement of the Second Republic, had 25 students, with five of them from Zambia, Tanzania and Malawi. The regional factor is in line with President Mnangagwa’s engagement and re-engagement process. The graduation ceremony was attended by Commander Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) Lieutenant-General Edzai Chimonyo, representing Commander ZDF General Phillip Valerio Sibanda, and Air Marshal Elson Moyo among others.