The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
LOG leaders Correctional Queens say they just want to enjoy themselves this morning when they take on Platinum Queens in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League. The match starts at 11am at Chikurubi Training Depot. With 60 points in the bag, a six-point lead and two games to play, Correctional Queens coach, Christopher Simeon, said it was time for his players to enjoy themselves. ‘’We can afford to lose to Platinum and still remain on top of the log. So, we are going into this game without pressure as ZDF and Platinum are fighting for second position,’’ he said. “Platinum are one of the best teams in the country. ‘’They are young with plenty of energy and there is a possibility of them giving us a problem as they have speed.’’ Platinum are fifth on the log table with 48 points from 23 wins and two draws. They have lost two games and have six matches, including today’s encounter against Correctional Queens, to complete their season. Their coach, Simbarashe Mlambo, said after Correctional lost to ZDF, they now believe they can be beaten. “I think, basically, it’s all about mental stability. You have got to be stable in the mind, you have got to believe. ‘’So, we are telling the girls that it’s possible and everyone is on top of their game and we just think it’s going to be a good game,” said Mlambo. He will be expecting some of his top players such as Progress Moyo, Claris Kwaramba and Tanaka Makusha, who all play for the national team, to lead the way in today’s games. The Zvishavane-based side will proceed to clash with PPU in the afternoon at Morris Depot. “All the other teams we are playing now, they were supposed to be coming to Zvishavane (but) then we go out and we just say okay we are coming there can we play you since you are not able to come and there is no pressure really,’’ he said. After today’ games, they still have to take on Rio Zim, Mutare City, Lusumbami and ZRP Mambas and these are all home games. Fixtures Today: Correctional Queens v Platinum Queens (11am, Chikurubi Training Depot), Flow Angels v ZRP Mambas (12noon, Glen View 1 new hall), Platinum v PPU (Morris Depot, 2pm). 