The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter CAPS United players will each receive $2 000 in winning bonuses in the remaining five Castle Lager Premiership football matches. The Green Machine sit on the summit of the log standings with 51 points, two ahead of closest challengers FC Platinum. But their form has slumped in recent games after they managed a mere point, out of a possible nine, in their last three outings. That poor run has of late stirred rumours the players were unhappy, but it has since emerged Darlington Dodo’s charges will now be among the best-paid players in the league each time they win games. The club chiefs this week met the players at one of their training sessions and pledged a sharp hike in victory bonuses, starting with the tricky home task against ZPC Kariba next week. The players will get half of the amount for drawn games. Sources within their camp told The Saturday Herald yesterday the club have indeed raised the bonus to $2 000. The players are understood to have been previously receiving around $600 per win. “CAPS United have promised to give the players $2 000 each as winning bonuses for their next match against ZPC Kariba on Thursday next week and half the amount for draws. “The figures are likely to be reviewed going forward as the management have expressed keen interest in seeing the club going all the way. “The boys have not been performing very well, but they are willing to do their best for the club going forward,” said the sources. Makepekepe welfare manager, Shakespeare Chinogwenya, referred questions to finance manager, Morgan Nyikahadzoyi, with the latter saying he was not in a position to comment on club matters. “What I can say at the moment is that the morale is very high in the camp. There are no complaints. “Everyone is happy but, about the winning bonuses, you can get in touch with our finance manager Morgan (Nyikahadzoyi),” said Chinogwenya. The Green Machine have a tough schedule in the run-in which is set to be one of the most intriguing in recent years with FC Platinum, Chicken Inn as well as ZPC Kariba all in the picture. CAPS will be in Harare in four of their five remaining games, starting with ZPC Kariba on Thursday, three days before they clash with Yadah Stars. They will then take on Dynamos before travelling to Mhondoro for a date against Ngezi Platinum Stars. The Green Machine conclude the season with a home tie against FC Platinum.