The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
CORRECTIONAL Queens stamped their authority in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League and retained the title when they defeated Platinum Queens 47-38 at Chikurubi Training Depot yesterday.
The prisons outfit claimed the title with a game to spare. They have just lost one game and will take on Black Rhinos today in their last match of the season.
Yesterday, they led by nine goals by half-time with the score standing at 25-16.
They extended the lead in the third quarter as they continued to control the game despite losing goal-shooter Linda Nkorongo due to an injury. She was replaced by Tafadzwa Mawango.
Assistant coach, Faith Matanganyidze, said although they could not maintain the bar they set last year, when they won all their matches, retaining the title was important. “I want to thank our Commissioner-General (Paradzai) Zimondi, he is the one who gives us time to train full-time,’’ said Matanganyidze.
“I think it’s a great achievement. “We have managed to keep on improving and maintaining our good performances.
“In these two consecutive years, we have managed to win the championship. It means a lot to us.’’
Both teams made 22 shots in the last half.
Correctional Queens provided the outstanding players yesterday with goal-shooter Nkorongo getting the golden hand and Lorraine Manjoro the best player. “I am very happy we won and to be voted player of the match also. It’s an honour. It’s exciting to be the best player of the day.
“It was a good year,’’ said Manjoro.
Platinum coach, Simba Mlambo, conceded defeat.
“I think, mentally, we lost it somewhere. But, I also think that they had a good game, they knew what was at stake,’’ said Mlambo. “They played their hearts out but I think the future is just bright for us.’’
They went on to play PPU at Morris Depot and won 69-23.
Results
Ngezi Platinum 59, Mutare City 17; Correctional Queens 47, Platinum Queens 38; Flow Angels 31, ZRP Mambas 67, Mutare City 20, Ngezi Platinum 74; Platinum Queens 69-23.
Fixtures
Today: Correctional Queens v Black Rhinos (Chikurubi Training Depot, 11am), ZRP Mambas v ZDF (Morris Depot, 11am).