The Herald Sports Reporter
IT has been a trying few weeks for CAPS United but the Green Machine are set to smile in the next few weeks. The Harare giants have stumbled in their bid to move clear of the chasing pack in the race for the Castle Lager Premiership title. They still hold a two-point lead over FC Platinum but have failed to win in their last three matches. They were beaten 0-1 by Chicken Inn, drew 1-1 against Herentals and fells 0-2 to TelOne. Makepekepe have been struggling since the inspirational Method Mwanjali was injured and their camp was rocked by the death of the son of their coach in a road accident. However, former striker Nyasha Mushekwi could give them an early Christmas present to cheer their spirits. The Zimbabwe international forward is delivering a luxury team bus, which he bought in China, to his old side. The bus has now landed in South Africa en-route to Zimbabwe. It’s set to be branded in South Africa before being delivered to the Green Machine. The 32-year-old Mushekwi acquired the luxury bus as a token of appreciation for the role CAPS United played in his career as a professional footballer. The acquisition of the bus comes exactly 10 years to the year Mushekwi left the Green Machine, moving to South Africa to join Mamelodi Sundowns, before his adventure took him to Sweden, Belgium and China. He spent more than US$120 000 on the bus. Initially, Mushekwi had wanted to deliver the bus by the end of last month but he has been delayed by the need for it to be branded to specifications in South Africa. ‘‘It will have a stop-over in South Africa, during its shipment home, for 10 days to get branded,’’ he told The Herald. ‘‘That’s where the guys who wrap my cars are they are really good guys. We settled for the white colour to try and match one of the colours associated with the team. ‘‘Of course, there will be some touches of green, and all this will be done in South Africa, but the most important thing right now is that the assembling of the bus, as per our specifications, has now been completed.’’