The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE selection of the Highlanders pair of goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda and striker Prince Dube, among the Soccer Stars of the Year, couldn’t have come at an ideal time for the club. Bosso host Ngezi Platinum Stars in the Chibuku Super Cup at Barbourfields on Saturday.
And, the selection of the duo among the 11 Soccer Stars of the Year, should have lifted the spirits of the Bulawayo giants who are enjoying a purple patch under new coach Pieter de Jongh. Dube has been impressive in the past two months where his goals have propelled Highlanders from the relegation matrix into contention for a top four finish. He has been the star player in the Chibuku tournament, driving his team to the final.
Sibanda has kept 16 clean sheets in the league and scored crucial goals from the spot for his team.
That Ngezi Platinum Stars, who have performed decently in the league failed to provide a single player onto the calendar, has given the Bosso faithful reason to believe their club could win the final on Saturday. An excited Dube said the selection has given him more confidence to do very well for his employers and their fans.
“I am very happy for this recognition. It feels good to be voted among the best 11 players in the country,’’ he said.
“It lifts one’s morale and gives a player the urge to want to keep fighting. “I am very happy. I also want to congratulate my teammate Ariel for the same recognition.
“He has been fantastic throughout the season. But, on top of everything, I would like to thank everyone at Highlanders, the players, the fans, technical team and the executive for the support they always give us. “We owe everyone at the club. It’s an honour for the club.”
He said the selection has given him more confidence ahead of the Chibuku Super Cup final.
Dube predicted a tough outing against the Rodwell Dhlakama charges on Saturday. “The Chibuku Super Cup final is our biggest game of the season. We need to win the Cup for the fans who have always backed us through thick and thin,’’ said Dube. “We also need to win it to end the trophy drought at the club and return to the African Safari.”