The Herald Business Reporter
Seed Co Limited says it aims to transform lives in Zimbabwe through the seed manufacturer’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes. The group has over the years adopted several strategies to bridge the gap between those more fortunate in life and the less privileged in society. Its CSR’s key focus has been on promoting health and wellness, education, sports and culture as well as agriculture.
“CSR has been an integral part of our values. Giving back is what makes the organisation we are,” said group head of public relations and communications Marjorie Mutemererwa who recently won the 2019 Zimbabwe Top CSR Manager of The Year Award. The event was organised by CSR Network Zimbabwe.
“We have over the years adopted various strategies in an effort to bridge the gap between those who have more and the have not, basing CSR activities on merit and need. Our approach to CSR has been to focus on promoting health and wellness,
“All our efforts are to ensure there is food security in the country hence we continue to stand on our mission statement to Seed, Feed and Lead in Zimbabwe, Africa and Beyond,” she said. Under the health and wellness, the group has feeding schemes as well as assisting widows and orphans with health oriented programmes. The group has over the years worked with institutions like Harare Children’s Home, Rose of Sharon, St Marnocks Primary and Secondary, Kasipiti Children’s Home, Mother of Peace, Mutemwa Leprosy Care Centre, Jairos Jiri Foundation, Churches, Harare, Banket and Chitungwiza Hospitals, Capota School of the Blind and SOS Orphanage. For education programmes, the group has assisted in paying school fees for students from primary schools to tertiary institutions. “Over the years our community schools, St Marnocks Primary and Secondary have benefited from this programme. We also have students that have graduated in engineering while others are currently studying medicine,” she added.
Seed Co assists schools, institutions and individuals in different sporting disciplines. The group’s partnerships includes top athletes like Takanyi Garanganga a professional tennis player, the National Rugby Union nicknamed the Sables, St Georges College rugby team and Churchill High School. This is in addition to supporting uprising marathon athlete from the rural areas of Murewa — Norest Mashayamombe.
“CSR is an integral part of our company and many disadvantaged across the country have benefited from our policies,” said Ms Mutemererwa.