The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Mambo Dhuterere dominates the Permican Awards nominees list after his songs were nominated in five different categories, ahead of other renowned musicians. Mambo Dhuterere was nominated in the Best Song Writer, Best Traditional Song, Best Newcomer, Best Collaboration and Song of the Year categories. He is rocking the entertainment scene with his latest album “Dare Guru”.
The Permican Gospel Awards were last held in 2016 and will mark their return this year with the ceremony slated for November 22 at the City Sports Centre in Harare. Running under the theme “Creatively Touching Souls” the awards are aimed at motivating and promoting local gospel musicians. Also on the nominees list is Michael Mahendere, Janet Manyowa, Tembalami and Spirit Praise Choir. Awards director Courage Ted Lazaro said preparations for the ceremony were at an advanced stage. “We want to push gospel music to step out of the ordinary,” he said. “There is a tendency of saying gospel musicians do mediocre things because they have an audience which is mostly church people. “We want them to push the boundaries and to be creative while touching souls.” Lazaro said they failed to hold the awards ceremony in the past two years because of financial constraints. “The Permican Awards are a corporate funded event so our main sponsors failed to come through, but we are happy that this year it is bigger and better,” he said. “We have old and new sponsors who have also came on board. We want to push the awards because artistes were complaining about not having awards. “Now I can promise to maintain the standard and we hope to continue working with our sponsors so that we do it annually.” Lazaro said there were not many changes to the awards planning and programming, adding that they stayed with the regular 17 awards categories. “The only change we added is on the Legendary Award, which we are now giving to two people; a male and a female,” he said.
Lazaro said voting in the Best Female Artist, Best Male Artist and the Song of the Year will be done through text messages or WhatsApp platforms. All other categories would be adjudicated by media personalities from different radio stations.