The Herald Crime Reporter The security services must be fully funded to enable them to discharge their constitutional mandates, Finance and Economic Planning Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube said yesterday.. Notwithstanding the current resource constraints, Treasury has been prioritising allocations and disbursements to the security sector. “However, more needs to be done given the state of affairs. “The 2020 National Budget will, therefore, strive to provide for medical provisions, school fees and pension for our war veterans given the immense sacrifice to the nation. “This will also include funds for income-generating projects, with $1,5 million having been already availed for a cattle-rearing project. “The 2020 Budget will also ensure that we address issues of accommodation, equipment, mobility, and institutional provisions as well as medical facilities. “Already, Treasury is supporting the extension of Manyame Hospital, construction of housing units at Dzivarasekwa and Tomlinson flats among other interventions,” he said. He said in the same vein, Government will leverage on the expertise of the security sector in implementation of projects and the need to capacitate the Zimbabwe Defence Industries. “I propose allocations to the security cluster as follows: Defence and War Veterans $3,1 billion; Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage $2,8 billion,” Prof Ncube said. On Judiciary and Correctional Services, he said, the decentralisation programmes and projects will be supported, including the decentralisation of justice delivery through construction of courts, provision of the requisite equipment and furniture. Prof Ncube said priority was                                         also being given to support towards expediting the work on alignment of the laws to the Constitution. He said resources will be availed towards Prisons and Correctional Services farm production enhancement programme,                       construction of institutional accommodation, institutional provisions for prisoners and security