The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
THE Rainbow Amateur Netball League have indicated they will stick to their calendar with the 2019 season coming to an end this Saturday, despite a number of teams yet to complete their fixtures. The 18-team league got underway in March. RANL secretary-general, Moses Gukurume, said teams that fail to fulfil their fixtures within the stipulated time frame risk losing points. “It is very true that teams will lose points. I am very sure that, as a league, we are going to interrogate each case with an open mind. “We are very sure that justice will be done to each team that is affected. “Honestly speaking, we can’t run a league without a time frame. As administrators, we are aware of the challenges each team went through, so it won’t be difficult to come up with a fair solution. “What I can safely say is that the season is coming to an end on the 30th of November, 2019. I am sure points will be awarded according to the merits of each case,” said Gukurume. Most of the clubs are yet to complete all their matches. Some of the affected teams like ZRP Mambas, who still have five games to fulfil, are set to play two matches tomorrow and on Thursday in Harare. ZRP Mambas team manager, Roselyne Mudzamiri, said they were considering engaging the RANL executive. “We will be playing Flow Angels at their home on Wedensday. Thursday we play ZDF at home,’’ said Mudzamiri. “Then Platinum, Goldreef and Lusumbami. I can’t say we will play, or not, it’s still hanging. We are still planning, we had challenges to get there, transport wise. “Our buses, at times, will be committed elsewhere. “We think we need to talk to RANL executive, other challenges are beyond our control’.’ Bulawayo-based Goldreef still have six matches to go and their coach Samuel Riyano said it’s impossible to fulfil all the matches in less than a week. Six of his key players are with the Under-21 national team preparing to go to South Africa. They still have to take on ZRP Mambas, PPU, Black Rhinos, Ruwa and Mutare City. “We went to Mutare but they failed to pitch up at their home ground. So, we are still waiting for the outcome from the disciplinary committee “I have six players in the national Under-21 team, they will be leaving (for South Africa) on Wednesday.’’ Fixtures Wednesday: Correctional Queens v Platinum (Chikurubi, 11am), Flow Angels v ZRP Mambas (Glen View 1, new hall 12noon), Platinum Queens v PPU (Morris Depot, 2pm) 