The Herald LONDON. — Gareth Southgate defended his decision to drop Raheem Sterling from the England squad for tomorrow’s match with Montenegro, saying it was the “right thing for the group’’ but refused to go into detail about his confrontation with Joe Gomez. Sterling was dropped from the squad for the Euro 2020 qualifier at Wembley after a bust-up with Liverpool defender Gomez in the players’ canteen at St George’s Park on Monday. It followed an on-field incident between Sterling and Gomez during the Premier League fixture between Liverpool and Manchester City on Sunday. The England boss confirmed the two players are speaking with one another again but clammed up when asked for further details about their argument. This is the transcript of how the England manager evaded the key questions yesterday: Question: Did you send Raheem Sterling home and then change your mind? Also, Joe Gomez appeared to have a scratch on his face today — was that caused by Raheem? Answer: So, several questions there. I think, the reality is I’m not prepared to go into detail. I think there is enough conjecture and opinion and talk out there, we don’t need to add to that. We’ve dealt with this as a group, these things happen and as a group we have decided the best way forward, we have agreement on that and we move forward from there. Question: How did Raheem react when you told him he’d been dropped? Answer: Again, I think we are a team and I understand our public profile, and there is incredible, insatiable interest in everything that goes on in our camp beyond anything that exists in any sporting organisation. That is something we have to deal with, that is something we all have to be aware of. That is the reality of why things become public that in a club often wouldn’t. The detail is not for me to take further. I have said what I think what needs to be said publicly but there are things that we need to keep between ourselves. Question: There has been a lot of speculation about whether this is the right decision or not because he is England’s best player. Could you address that and also the rumours that Jordan Henderson got involved in terms of mediation between Joe Gomez and Raheem Sterling? Answer: I think it is as important to always be as fair as possible in the decision-making I make, whether that’s a senior player or a junior player. Quite a number of our senior players have been active in discussions yesterday. I think that is an important process because I want to get a feel for where the group are and how we can move forward together. But then I am the manager and I have certain decisions that are my responsibility and I was prepared to take them. I think I have answered that. There were several senior players who have been very mature and the group have been very mature in dealing with a difficult situation. Question: Is he still in the leadership group that you have? Does this count against him being captain again in the future? Answer: I think the decision has been made not to consider Raheem for the game on Thursday. That is the end of the matter for me. We then have to move forward and that’s why it was important to me if it was possible to keep the group together. That was the most important thing. As emotions calmed yesterday, that was clearly a possibility and everybody worked that through. I’m very impressed with the players, the way they worked that through collectively and then I had to make some difficult calls on that but that’s done and end of discussion on it. Question: Were all the players on board with it and can you break down why it is effectively a one game ban and would you see that as harsh given someone like James Maddison happened last time, going to the casino and wasn’t punished. How do you weigh up that punishment given it does seem harsh and incidents like this happen on a fairly regular basis, don’t they? Answer: It’s not for me to discuss the details of the incident so I don’t think there’s anything to be gained from any further discussion on that. In the end, I have to find the right solution for the group and how we will work moving forward and that is a very difficult line, you try to be fair at all times when I’m dealing with all of the players. — Mailonline.