The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
NGEZI Platinum Stars coach, Rodwell Dhlakama, says he isn’t a prophet but he knows he has a team that will compete well in the Chibuku Super Cup final. Their showdown against favourites Highlanders is at Barbourfields tomorrow.
A place to represent Zimbabwe in next year’s CAF Confederation Cup is at the stake on top of the $225 000 prize money for the winners. The spotlight has largely been on Bosso, who are enjoying a new lease of life under their Dutch mentor Hendrikus Pieter de Jongh. But Ngezi Platinum Stars yesterday warned they were in the final to compete.
They won the title in 2016 and went on to represent the country in the second tier Confederation Cup under Tonderai Ndiraya.
The platinum miners are sensing another great opportunity for continental exposure and their coach, Dhlakama, yesterday said they were not going to be pushovers in the final. “It’s unfortunate that there are some people who have the kind of thinking that it will be one way,’’ he said.
“But we fought all the way and got here, which means we also want to win it. “Obviously, we are aware that we are playing away from home. The environment gives the home team an edge largely because of the supporters who make up the 12th man. “That is why we have stressed the importance of psychological preparedness. Of course, you will never get to a point where you say you are 100 percent satisfied but I believe our guys will be up to the task. “I am sure they already know what to expect. If you remember earlier this month we played Highlanders at Barbourfields in a league match and I should say they were very lucky to get a point. “We had the upper hand and they got a penalty, which I thought wasn’t warranted, for the equaliser. I am not a prophet but I prepare my team well.”
Bosso have been in imperial form. The Cup competition coincided with the arrival of their Dutch coach de Jongh, who has been credited with the turnaround at the Bulawayo giants. De Jongh might just cap a good year for himself by leading the giants to success in the tournament.
Meanwhile, Tichaona Mabvura has failed to recover in time for tomorrow’s Chibuku Super Cup final. “It’s regrettable that we will be missing two of the team’s key players, Ketala (Nielson) and Mabvura (Tichaona),” said Dhlakama. “These are key players and very experienced in the team. Their experience helped the team to be where we are now.
“We are just 90 minutes from glory, thanks to their efforts, of course. They played a vital role to get us this far.
“We will definitely miss their services.’’