The Herald Nqobile Tshili Bulawayo Bureau
ZANU-PF National Political Commissar Cde Victor Matemadanda yesterday warned party members against meddling in political processes in other provinces as this causes divisions. Cde Matemadanda made the remarks while addressing party members at Zanu-PF Bulawayo provincial headquarters at Davies Hall during a meeting to announce the newly elected district coordinating committee (DCC) members. He said he had received information that some party members from other provinces were trying to influence the outcome of the Bulawayo DCC elections. “The Bulawayo leadership has complained about this interference from other provinces which is not allowed. Those that think they are better off in Bulawayo must transfer and join Bulawayo. If you are in Matabeleland South, Midlands, Masvingo and even Matabeleland North be content with politics of your province,” he said. Cde Matemadanda said there were some members in the province who came up with a list of their preferred candidates in a bid to manipulate the party’s electoral processes. “I’ve got the papers and I’m going to submit them to the Politburo to decide on what action to take,” said Cde Matemadanda. He said the lists caused unnecessary divisions in the party, hence his decision to take the matter up with the Politburo. He said Bulawayo province should do away with factions as this was detrimental to building harmony within  the party. Cde Matemadanda said the party’s DCC members hade a role in rebuilding the party from grassroots and should start mobilising members. In Area One Cde Raymond Mtomba won the chairmanship deputised by Cde Nkosana Mkandla while in Area 2 Cde Paul Mutara won the chairmanship with Cde Ntandeyenkosi Mlilo as the deputy. Former Njube-Lobengula MP Cde Maidei Mpala won the Area 3 chair and will be deputised by Cde Nkonzo Mhlanga while in Area 4 Cde Obert Msindo was elected chair with Cde Dennis Sibanda his deputy. Cde Zowa Msika is chairman of Area 5 and is deputised by Cde Khanien Ngwenya.