The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in Khartoum, Sudan
FC PATINUM’S missing luggage was apparently left behind at Bole International airport in Ethiopia where the Zimbabwean champions got their connecting flight into the Sudanese capital.
The luggage was expected to arrive here last night. The Zimbabwean champions, who are set to take on Al-Hilal in a Group B CAF Champions League match tomorrow night at 9pm, were left fuming after arriving here without their soccer balls, kit and other training equipment.
An Ethiopian Airlines official, Sheza Mohammed, who is based here, wrote a brief e-mail to his counterparts in Addis Ababa.
“Urgent, left behind on ET-342/27Nov19; below baggage is for a football team (that) came to Sudan for a match in (the) African Champions League. “Please send their baggage on (a) priority basis to avoid any problem and unnecessary claims.’’
FC Platinum media liaison officer Chido Chizondo and club general manager Joseph Mususa, both confirmed the luggage had been “found’’ in Addis Ababa but expressed disappointment at the delays in transporting it to Sudan. “They had initially told us that the bags will arrive at 6am, then it was moved to 11am and now we are told its this evening at 6pm. We hope not to get any (more) excuses,” said Chizondo yesterday.
Coach Lizwe Sweswe had not planned any training sessions in the afternoon. “We will rest during the day since we have been travelling for long hours,’’ he said. “Since the match is at night, we will then train under floodlights tomorrow (yesterday) and on the eve of match day (today).’’ Yesterday, the players had some swimming sessions in the afternoon under the watchful eye of assistant coach Patrick Mandizha. FC Platinum squad in Sudan
Petros Mhari, Francis Tizayi, Wallace Magalane, Raphael Muduviwa, Tawana Chikore, Lawrence Mhlanga, Gift Bello, William Stima, Charles Sibanda, Rainsome Pavari, Hagiazo Magaya, Rodwell Chinyengetere, Never Tigere, Devon Chafa, Guyve Mawete Nsiala, Gift Mbweti, Keitha Madera,
Kelvin Madzongwe, Rahman Kutsanzira, Mkhokheli Dube, Albert Eonde.