The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter MAMBAS goal attack Lisa Patricia Masia was the toast of the day as the police side made light work of Mutare City who they comfortably beat 53-15 in a Glow Petroleum Rainbow Amateur Netball League match at Morris Depot yesterday. Masia got the golden hand award as well as winning the best player of the match with her 30 shots in this largely one-sided game in which the visitors only came alive in the third quarter when they were already trailing 26-6. In the absence of former Gems goal shooter Pauline Jani, who is nursing a shoulder injury, Masia said after the game she felt overwhelmed to fill in the big shoes of the former. “It was a tough game and the responsibility to shoot (today) was on me. I am used to playing with Pauline, who always has the big responsibility, so the onus was on me to deliver the goods. I am glad I managed to do so and we won the game comfortably. “I am still working on improving my shots,” said Masia. Mambas coach Talent Museka was also happy that despite not fielding some of his key players such as Jani and Sabina Gweke, the upcoming players stepped up. “Some of our regular players were not playing today but the upcoming players showed potential, so we will continue to use them until the season ends. We are injecting fresh blood into the team and its shaping up. “We are eyeing for a top four finish since the title is out of reach so with results like these we are okay,” Museka said. Mutare City coach Simba Nenhunzi said his troops lacked game fitness after going for a month without fulfilling games due to financial logistics. Before playing against Mambas, Mutare City played against Beta and lost 66-19. However, the Mutare City coach said it’s not all gloomy as they are working on regaining fitness. “The performance was okay considering that we lacked game time. We were also playing a big team so our confidence level was not that good to fight for a positive result but later in the game we were dictating the game and should have started with that attitude,” Nenhunzi said. Meanwhile, Beta emerged the biggest winners at the weekend after beating third-placed Platinum 45-41 on Saturday before securing another victory against Mutare City. Results: Beta 66, Mutare City 19; Mambas 53, Mutare City 15; Beta 45, Platinum 41; Tenax 56, 26 Black Rhinos.