The Herald Chipo Chaumba Business Writer
The Hospitality Association of Zimbabwe held its elective congress in Mutare over the weekend that saw the election of Mr Clive Chinwada as the new president. Mr Farai Chimba of the Victoria Falls Hotel was voted first vice president, while Mr Brian Nyakutombwa from Montclair becomes the second vice president. Mr Chinwada took over from Mr Tamuka Macheka. Mr Chimba and Mr Nyakutombwa took over from Mr Adam Gordons and George Manyumwa respectively. In his keynote address, Secretary for Environment, Climate Change Tourism and Hospitality Industry Munodawafa Munesu, implored stakeholders to unite and work together in uplifting the hospitality and tourism industry. “It is therefore critical that as a sector, we realise that generation of the much needed foreign currency, employment creation, and resuscitation of downstream industries are among the focus areas where the identified key pillars of the economy such as the hospitality industry are expected to play a pivotal role,” said Mr Munodawafa. He challenged the congress to identify the root causes of the decline in arrivals and put in place intervening measures “I therefore urge all members undertaking or planning new investments to work closely with my Ministry in addressing any impediments to such noble intentions so that together we can attract more investments in the sector. “The Government is already concerned with the country’s hotel-room stock, which it says could be over 2 000 rooms short by end of next year, thus curtailing the growth of the tourism sector. “New hotel developments and expansions are a key component of the tourism growth strategy going forward, especially when taken in the context that the current room stock of 6 483 may result in a cumulative shortage of about 2 087 rooms as early as end of 2020, going by projected modest tourism growth,” said Mr Munodawafa said. He said the congress also came at a time when his Ministry was currently putting together a Tourism Roadmap Document to 2023, which aims to ensure sustainable tourism growth during Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP) period. Mr Munodawafa said the theme for the congress was “Hospitality stepping into the fourth industrial revolution,” which was also appropriate for the future development of the tourism sector. The hospitality industry as the largest sub-sector of the tourism industry is a major employer, earner of foreign currency and contributor to the national economy. The new executive pledged to support Government efforts to boost tourism arrivals.