The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
CORRECTIONAL Queens underlined their status as the team to beat in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League yesterday when they defeated Ruwa Queens 99-24, ensuring they remain on course to retaining the title they won last year. With just two games to go before they conclude their 2019 campaign, the log leaders are set to defend the title having lost just one game while ZDF, who are occupying the second spot, have lost three games. Both teams are left with two games for this season which is scheduled to end on November 30. Correctional lost to ZDF a week ago but bounced back to winning ways in style when they dominated yesterday’s match with their centre Chipo Mavherevhedze emerging the best player of the match while Pretty Banda received the golden hand. They are up against Black Rhinos and Platinum in tricky assignments for their remaining fixtures. In other matches, Beta Queens outclassed Golden Valley 126-32 in a one-sided affair at Barclays Sports Club on Saturday and Mercy Chinyama got the golden hand for her 67 goals while Tinga Makunganya was voted player of the match. Across town, ZDF Queens quickly regrouped after their defeat to Glow Petroleum on Friday to beat Ngezi Platinum 47-37 at Harare Metropolitan Police on Saturday. And best player of the match Rudo Karume said they had learnt their lesson after underrating Glow. “This is the second time I was voted best player and what pleases me is that on both occasions it was against big teams in the league. So I believe my game has been on the rise, which is good. “The game was okay and I want to thank my teammates because we worked as a team. We were coming from a defeat against Glow and Ngezi were so confident they would beat us but we did well to defeat them. “For our game against Glow there was over excitement after beating Correctional, the log leaders, and we thought we would definitely beat Glow but we lost. We learnt our lesson to never underestimate any team. We should take each game seriously and train for each game the way we always do because every game is important,” said the seasoned defender. Karume said she would want to see her team win their remaining two games so that they maintain their second spot on the log table. “There is competition in the league, we beat Correctional but we lost to Glow, who went on to lose to Ngezi and we beat Ngezi. So you can see the competition is there. “For the remaining games I am hoping we win, so that we at least finish on second position,” said Karume. ZDF will face ZRP Mambas and PPU in their last two games of the season.