The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
NGEZI PLATINUM Stars coach, Rodwell Dhlakama, feels indebted to the Mhondoro community for raising his mother. The veteran gaffer’s mother hails from this Mashonaland West district where he even spent part of his life under the care of his maternal grandparents. And, he feels this is the right time to pay back the community by delivering the Chibuku Super Cup. Dhlakama promised to win the trophy when he was appointed the team’s caretaker coach two months ago. He replaced Dutchman Erol Akbay. The platinum miners face Highlanders in the final of the country’s biggest knock-out tournament at Barbourfields on Saturday hoping to become the second team to win the same tourney twice. They were winners in 2016 when they upstaged FC Platinum at Baobab to win the ticket to represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup in 2017. “This is a trophy we badly need to win. I want to win it for everyone in Mhondoro. I want to say thank you to everyone in this area,’’ said Dhlakama. “Remember, this is where my mother hails from and so I need to win this trophy for the Mhondoro folk. “This is a massive team with a massive support base. We have to work extra hard for this passionate community. “Of course, we are facing a team which is in top form but we have our own ambitions. We need to win and return to Africa.” The Mhondoro have to tame a marauding giant which has just awakened in recent months. Bosso are enjoying a good run and their star forward Prince Dube has been banging crucial goals. They are hoping to end an eight-year trophy drought by stopping Dhlakama’s troops. Ngezi Platinum midfielder, Tichaona Mabvura, one of the only four regulars who started the league match against Black Rhinos on Monday at Rufaro, remains a concern. He had to be rushed to hospital after suffering a knee injury. “I had to manage the boys. We needed to win the match against Black Rhinos but we also had one other eye on the Chibuku Super Cup final,’’ said Dhlakama. “We are hoping Tichaona (Mabvura) gets fit in time as we need all the players to be available for the crucial final.”