The Herald Arts Reporter
Gweru-based gospel singer Mai Patai had a special birthday present last week when she was appointed the brand ambassador for Queen of Peace Rehabilitation. The musician turned 41 last week and had a double celebration following the announcement of her new ambassadorial role.
In an interview with The Herald yesterday, Mai Patai said she was ecstatic about the development and vowed to work hard in her new role. Queen of Peace is a mental rehabilitation centre in Gweru and Mai Patai has worked with the organisation for many years before it decided to appoint her brand ambassador.
Previously, she was a board member of the organisation. “This is a blessing from God. I never anticipated I would celebrate my birthday in such a special way. It means a lot to me and my career. I have been in the industry for many years and this recognition will push me to work harder,” said an elated Mai Patai. “I promise to serve the organisation well. Such endorsements will bring new challenges and I have to be up to the task. It is a great opportunity for me. I have worked with the organisation for many years in their charity work and now I will have more duties as their brand ambassador.” Queen of Peace founder Stella Khumalo Gaihai said she was working on many projects with Mai Patai.
“She has been part of us for many years and she fully appreciates what we do. She understands our work and we agreed that she is the best person to be our brand ambassador,” said Gaihai. “She is working on a video with children from our centre and we hope it will go a long way in showing that people with psycho-social disabilities are capable of doing many things if given care and attention.” She said they are embarking on a campaign against drug abuse and they will have a number of road shows with Mai Patai.
Queen of Peace is working on a project titled “Restore Mental Well-being” that has benefited many individuals that were being treated as outcasts in the society. Mai Patai has been doing well this year, having featured at a number of shows around the country and taking home a number of accolades for her album “Punish the Devil”. The album announced her return after a long break and she seems determined to conquer the world.
Many people remember her as a dark horse who stole the limelight about a decade ago with her song “Mazambara” that shook the showbiz scene.