The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE ZIFA Eastern Region championship race enters a decisive phase this weekend as leaders Tenax take on third-placed FC Makaha at Chikondoma. Second-placed Buffaloes travel to Ruwa to face unpredictable Ruwa ProGroup. Blessing Madhombi’s Tenax have a slender one-point after moving to 59 points with three games remaining. Their opponents, FC Makaha, are seven points adrift. “This is an important game and we are ready although it is difficult to play FC Makaha at their Chikondoma backyard,’’ said Madhombi. “We need to win and remain on top. The game is going to be a tough one as they (FC Makaha) still have a huge chance to remain in the race with a win. “We respect them as they boast of an experienced coach in Paul Chimalizeni, but I told my boys to remain focused. ‘’We will not be looking at Buffaloes’ results as we need to do the job on our own.’’ Chimalizeni said they will play for their badge. ‘‘We have confident players whom you will not believe joined the Division this season,’’ said Chimalizeni. ‘‘The boys are hungry for success and we are ready for Tenax.’’ In ZIFA Central Region Division One League, Sheasham remain at the top and today travel to Mbizo to face Dendairy. Second-placed Whawha travel to Gokwe North. The two teams are separated by four points. Eastern Region Fixtures Tomorrow: Grayham v Green Fuels (Ruvheneko), Mwenezana v Renco Mine (Mwenezi), Mutare City Rovers v Melfort (Sakubva), Masvingo United v Chipinge Stars (Mucheke), Ruwa ProGroup v Buffaloes (Chiremba), FC Makaha v Tenax (Chikondoma), Bikita Minerals v Surrey Abbatoirs (Lithium). Central Region Fixtures Tomorrow: Blanket Mine v MSU (Blanket Mine), Shabanie Mine v Ivan Hoe Mine (Maglas), Kwekwe United v The Venue (Bagdad), Black Eagles v Real BVM (Simbi), Dulibadzimu United v Vumbachikwe (Dulibadzimu), ZRP Gweru v Filabusi United (Wilson Fields), Dendairy v Sheasham (Mbizo), FC Platinum U-9 v ZPC Munyati (Mandava), Gokwe North v Whawha (Gokwe).