The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter 
Harare City ……………………………..0
Triangle …………………………………..0
(Harare City won 3-1 on penalties)
TRIANGLE coach Taurai Mangwiro is a bitter man after the defence of their Chibuku Super Cup ended in a quarter-final defeat at Rufaro yesterday. Mangwiro’s charges had to travel for the fixture immediately after their CAF Confederation Cup second leg tie against Mauritanian club FC Nouadibou at Barbourfields on Sunday. “Honestly speaking, I don’t think we were given a chance to defend the trophy,” said Mangwiro.
“That is the honest truth because how does one explain such a fixture for a team which is representing the country?
“We played on Sunday in Bulawayo in the CAF Confederation Cup and we were supposed to go back home in Triangle on Monday then drive again on Tuesday to Harare for this match on Wednesday. “We have not been given a chance to prepare for the game, not even a single day to conduct a training session. I am not a magician. “But, congratulations to Harare City, we wish them all the best in the semi-final.”
Harare City have now booked a semi-final date against Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab this Saturday.
The rescheduled fixture had to be decided via the lottery after a dull draw in regulation time. And three of the four Harare City takers, including goalkeeper Maxwell Nyamupangedengu, Moses Muchenje and Marshal Machazane, buried their kicks while Raymond Uchena blasted his effort wide. Nyamupangedengu saved Collins Dhuwa’s kick while ‘keeper Ronald Mudimu and Russell Madamombe missed.
Only captain, Ralph Kawondera, was able to beat Nyamupangedengu. “We have been longing for this. We carry a huge responsibility of playing and winning games,” said Harare City coach Lloyd Chitembwe. “We are happy with the result and, certainly, not with the performance.
“I would like to give credit to the boys. We have mastered the art of winning games even without playing well.”
For two clubs who met in a lively final at Gibbo last year, this was a very dull match with minimal goalmouth action significant enough to write home about. Harare City winger Ishmael Wadi, who has often provided a spark, never shifted into second gear. Teams 
Harare City: M. Nyamupangedengu, W. Manondo, K. Musharu (M. Machazane, 90th min) , T. Chimwemwe, I. Wadi, M. Diro-Nyenye, R. Uchena, W. Mukanga (T. Tavengwa, 58th min), M. Muchenje, M. Vengesayi (T. Tumba, 90th min) , H. Chapusha
Triangle: R. Mudimu, P. Tonha, A. Chivheya, D. Dzvinyai, T. Mavhunga, R. Kawondera, G. Bero, R. Madamombe, N. Chintuli, P. Manhanga (C. Dhuwa, 90th min), K. Chigwida