The Herald Tawanda Musarurwa
Set amongst verdant pine trees that populate the rolling hills of the stunning Nyanga highlands, Dawn Properties’ time-shares — popularly known as the Blue Swallow Lodges – are a quixotic vision. But as much as their location is dreamy, what awaits you inside is just as good, in view of continuing refurbishment work. “Refurbishment is an on ongoing process as we are awake to the needs and requirements of our clients,” said Dawn Properties marketing manager Thembinkosi Sibare. The revamp has given each lodge an enchanting lift inside while the outside retains the classic style that merges so well with the hilly surroundings. The lodges’ beds can accommodate up to six guests in three bedrooms, though an additional two (2) minors can be accommodated in the lounges. The lodges offer a ‘‘home-away-from-home’’ environment, with fully equipped self-catering facilities, and the kitchen now has expanded the space. Blue Swallow Lodges offer grandeur and unexpected volume, due to their modern open plan living areas and an abundance of natural light streaming through well-positioned skylights. To the rear of the lodges is a magnificent landscaped backyard that overlooks the shimmering blue Troutbeck dam, fairway and mountains. The lodges are conceptualised for modern living, featuring tailored interior design and craftsmanship to include hand selected materials and finishings. The time-share units are located adjacent to the Troutbeck Resort. Although the lodges are self-contained, members have the option of using the hotel’s bars, restaurants and facilities. Other activities offered at the hotel include horse riding, bowls, trout fishing, or rowing/canoeing around the dam. Holiday schemes are becoming increasingly popular in Zimbabwe and across the globe, and Dawn Properties’ time-shares are certainly in vogue. With a well-thought-of-scheme and hands-on management, the group’s time-share is a good way of affording regular holidays. Each Blue Swallow Lodge costs from US$150 per night. Dawn Properties is also selling time-share contracts for Blue Swallow Lodges. The immense park is situated in one of the most scenic areas of the country’s Eastern Highlands that is defined by rolling green hills and perennial rivers transverse the 47 000 hectare park. Altitudes between 1 800 and 2 593m provide cool weather and fresh mountain air, perfect for rest and relaxation. With its stunning mountainous views, numerous waterfalls, various activities and unique flora and fauna, Nyanga National Park can provide the visitor with an unforgettable holiday experience. The spectacular mountainous terrain is home to a variety of animals including the mysterious waterbuck, wildebeest, kudu, zebra, impala, sables, eland to mention but a few. But to top it all, it is Nyanga’s famous trout.