The Herald Joseph Madzimure Senior Reporter
Zanu-PF has sent a condolence message to the Mguni family following the death of Deputy Chief Whip and legislator for Mangwe Cde Obedingwa Mguni in Harare on Tuesday. Cde Mguni, who was also Zanu-PF provincial treasurer for Matabeleland South Province and former Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, succumbed to diabetes at Avenues Clinic on Tuesday night. He was 57. He had earlier attended to his duties in Parliament. Zanu-PF spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya described Cde Mguni as a committed, humble and disciplined man who contributed immensely to the development of the country. “It is a tragic loss as he was in Parliament yesterday (Tuesday) and this came as a shock to us and we are really with the family in this tragedy,” he said. “It is a terrible loss to the party and to the nation.” Cde Khaya Moyo said the death of Cde Mguni left the party and Mangwe constituency in utter bewilderment. “As Senator for Bulilima Mangwe, I feel part of my physical being ripped off,” he said. “Cde Mguni died on duty as he attended Parliament on Tuesday where he interacted with his colleagues in a jovial, positive and constructive manner.” Zanu-PF Chief Whip Cde Pupurai Togarepi, who was with Cde Mguni in Parliament when he was taken ill, described his death as a shock to the nation and the party at large. “The death of Cde Mguni is a very huge loss to the party, to the Parliament of Zimbabwe, to my department as Chief Whip,” he said. He said Cde Mguni was a humble man who interacted with everyone regardless of one’s political affiliation. “He was a very important cadre, loyal, quiet, and sociable,” said Cde Togarepi. “He demonstrated qualities of a good leader. I have lost a brother, a cadre who I respect very much. I am new in Parliament, but he was my deputy, despite the fact that he knew Parliament duties better than me, he still treated me as a brother and he was patient with me so that I understand Parliament.” Cde Mguni’s wife Hlalani Cara said she was still in shock. Cde Mguni did his primary education at Matole and Silima primary schools in Plumtree and Regina Mundi. He went to Empandeni Secondary School in Plumtree and, Matope, and Mkushi in Zambia. Cde Mguni joined the liberation struggle in 1975. In 1976, he went to Zambia and completed his lower sixth at Mkushi College before going to Libya for military training. In 1980, he left army integration and joined teaching until 1986 before he went to South Africa where he joined the South African government. He has been a businessman since 2005. He survived by his wife, Hlalani and three children. Burial arrangements will be announced in due course.