The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent
Six lucky winners from Gweru, Bulawayo and Harare will have a VIP experience at the Castle Lite Unlocks hip hop music showcase at the Ticket Pro Dome in Johannesburg, South Africa, next week. Rees Kudakwashe Karimazondo, Mthokozisi Dlodlo, Donald Shingirai Mufunda, Tellmore Rapozo, Donald Madzikanda and Steve Taderera will fly to South Africa on Sunday. Delta Beverages brands manager Kundayi Mawema narrated the winners’ itinerary. “On Sunday our six winners will be flown down to Johannesburg, South Africa, where they will check in to a five-star hotel in Sandton, alongside consumers (winners) from other regional markets. “There will be a welcome reception that evening, set amidst a hive of Castle Lite activity, as the Unlocks Experience roars into life,” she said. “Day two will be the first ever Unlocks Hip Hop Conference at the Ticket Pro dome, with VIP access for our winners. “The brand will be immersing Castle Lite fans in all things Hip Hop; culture, contemporary fashion, art, and music from local artists.” At the conference the winners will witness United States’ Billboard Music Award winning rapper Robert Rihmeek Williams a.k.a ‘Meek Mill’ perform. Mawema said the winners will be treated to hip hop music by another renowned American rapper Post Malone on the next day. “Day three will be the ultimate music experience. Our consumers will have golden circle tickets to the Castle Lite Unlocks Music Concert featuring Post Malone plus exclusive access to the VIP Hospitality Suite. “The experience in there is comparable to no other as it is fully catered and gives our local consumers a chance to party with other winners from across SADC region including those from Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia, Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland, while enjoying the extra cold refreshment of their favourite beer,” she said. Unlocks is an annual hip hop music showcase. Zimbabwe has been participating every year except for last year. “After a year off, it’s great for Zimbabwe to be participating in the Castle Lite Unlocks campaign once again. “Unlocks is the brand’s single most anticipated event of the year in South Africa, and we believe the timing could not be better to reward our loyal consumers, who continue to support our brand, even during the coldest of winters,” said Mawema.