The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor ZIMBABWE’S junior motocross champion rider Emmanuel Bako is expected to be one of the star attractions during the opening round of the Supercross Night Racing Series at Smoking Pistons in Johannesburg, South Africa. Bako has been invited to take part in tomorrow night’s event after stealing the show in the 85cc (Junior) Class during the fifth round of the 2019 Mayfair Gearbox Gauteng Championship series at Dirt Bronco in Krugersdorp, South Africa, this last Sunday. The 12-year-old Zimbabwean rider, fresh from coming second overall in the 85cc Class during the third round of the Bogwheelers Club National Championship series at Donnybrook in Harare the previous weekend, upped his game during Sunday’s race meeting at Dirt Bronco where he met with little resistance on his way to claim the first step on the podium after winning both heats. There were 17 riders in the 85cc (Junior) Class and Bako outsmarted this good field of young riders to emerge as the top dog ahead of two South African bikers James Thompson and Jordan van Wyk who came second and third. According to reports from Krugersdorp, Bako was like a ball of fire as he shot in front when the first gates dropped and won both heats without raising much of a sweat, beating some of the riders in the 85cc (Junior) Class who were on big wheels to collect the maximum 50 points on the board. Bako’s camp was naturally elated by their riders latest victory in the South African motocross racing circuit this year. “It was an amazing race as Emmanuel was able to keep the South African pair of Thompson and van Wyky behind; and completed the opening lap with the lead. He continued his flawless riding and seized control of the moto in both heats . . . It was like ex cathedra,” Bako’s father and manager Brighton told The Herald after Sunday’s race meeting at Dirt Bronco. And after sweeping the board at Dirt Bronco on Sunday, Emmanuel was extended an invitation to take part in tomorrow’s first of the four round Supercross Night Racing at Smoking Pistons in Johannesburg. This is likely going to be an exciting event as R30 000 in prize money is up for grabs, courtesy of Cannabis Energy Drink. The other three rounds of the Supercross Night Racing series are scheduled for July 26, August 23 and October 4 at the same venue.