The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
THE founding father of the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters’ Association, Eddie “Mboma” Nyatanga, is expected to leave for Belgium tomorrow to join the legendary Moses “Bambo” Chunga at the centenary celebrations of the latter’s former club SC Eendracht Aalst which gets underway this weekend. Chunga was recently named in the Team of the Century at Eendracht Aalst in Belgium and will receive the honour at the club’s centenary celebrations which kick off with a gala dinner dubbed “100 Years of Eendracht Aalst’” which will be held simultaneously with a “Meet & Greet the people” function tomorrow night in the Belgian city of Aalst. Former Warriors captain Chunga will be the guest of honour at tomorrow night’s function, where he will mingle and mix with other E Aalst greats as the club begin a week-long celebrations of their 100 years of existence. Chunga played at the side for five years and was also the captain at one point between the late 1980s and early 1990s where he used to thrill the E Aalst fans with his silky dribbling skills and inch-perfect passes. And as a sign of respect for Chunga, E Aalst have also invited one of his close associates, Nyatanga, to be part of their centenary celebrations. In an invitation letter sent to Nyatanga by E Aalst’s chief executive Dirk Adriaenssens dated  May 27, 2019, the club said they felt obliged to invite him to their 100th birthday as he is part “of the family of our legend Chunga”. “The former football club of Moses Chunga, SC Eendracht Aalst, is celebrating its 100th birthday next month (June). This calls for a party! Below, you will find the main programme of our centenary celebrations: Saturday June 15, 2019 at 19:00: Legends Game (former players) Friday June 21, 2019: Gala Dinner “100 years Eendracht Aalst” Saturday June 22, 2019 at 20:00:  Century Game (first team) “As Moses (Chunga) is one of the best players ever having worn our black-and-white shirt, the board of directors would like to invite you to attend these events, together with Moses. “But there’s more! Moses has been selected for our ‘Team of the Century’, which, I am confident he will consider a great honour. “Consequently, a number of Press interviews (television, radio and newspapers) will be organised during his stay. “More than 25 years after the last game of Moses for Eendracht Aalst, supporters are still  talking about him. It would, therefore, be a tremendous pleasure for us to welcome Moses and his family in Aalst for this series of events. We fervently hope that you will be able to accept this (VIP) invitation,” read part of the invitation sent to Nyatanga by Adriaenssens. And Nyatanga yesterday said he felt humbled and honoured to be invited by E Aalst for their century celebrations where he will join the club’s legend Chunga, who is now his business partner. In fact, Nyatanga is now helping Chunga to run his football academy — the Moses Bambo Chunga Soccer Academy — in Harare. “I personally think that this is a great honour for me to be invited to be part of E Aalst’s 100th birthday and this is a chance for us, as the Moses Bambo Chunga Soccer Academy, to seek some investment opportunities for Zimbabwean football in Belgium. In fact, I am going to help Chunga to look or source for some sponsorship for his academy during our week-long stay there. “As you already know, Moses Chunga is already a big football brand, which, unfortunately is being underutilised here in Zimbabwe and it is high time that he gets his due recognition as one of the greatest players to emerge from Zimbabwe during both the pre-and post-Independence era. “Although Chunga is no longer actively involved in coaching football at the highest level, I think he still got a job to do in Zimbabwean football,” Nyatanga said. Nyatanga said he also intends to travel to Egypt to watch one of Zimbabwe’s matches during the AFCON tournament, which gets underway tomorrow night, courtesy of one of the Moses Bambo Chunga Soccer Academy’s main sponsors, Farai Rwodzi. In fact, The Herald understands that businessman Rwodzi wants to buy the franchise of local Premiership side — Yadah Stars —  which has been up for sale since the beginning of the season.