The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO Highlanders ……….. (1) 2 ZPC Kariba ……………0 IN the presence of an offspring of the team’s founding fathers, Prince Bulelani Lobengula Khumalo, Highlanders turned on the power to beat ZPC Kariba at Barbourfields yesterday. Save for a 10-minute scare, in the second half, especially after the introduction of their former player Nigel Makumbe, Highlanders controlled the game well. And they killed it as a contest five minutes before the end through a goal of individual brilliance by second-half substitute Tinashe Makanda. Bosso had gone to the breather leading from an Ariel Sibanda 21st minutes penalty after a handball inside the box by Bornface Zuberi. He had attempted to clear a goal-bound shot by Ray Lunga. Coincidentally, Zuberi was wearing jersey number 21 and it took him 21 minutes to handle the ball that resulted in the penalty. “We never came to the party today, we were not ourselves and gave too much room to our opponents,” said ZPC Kariba coach Godfrey Tamirepi. Bosso boss, Madinda Ndlovu, said things were now looking positive for his men. “When we got that win last week, some never believed while some did. We did say, too, that when these boys get to the pick of their fitness you will see what they are made of,” said Madinda. Highlanders’ chief striker, Prince Dube, is yet to open his mark at Emagumeni this season but was very influential yesterday. He was unlucky in the 37th minute when he left his marker for dead before letting loose a shot that grazed the crossbar with Takabva Mawaya, in goal for the visitors, diving in vain. Teams: Highlanders: A. Sibanda, B. Banda (A. Silla 63rd min), C. Kapupurika (R.  Chifura, 86th min) , R. Lunga (T. Makanda, 78th min), A. Mbeba, N. Masuku, T. Ndlovu, P. Muduhwa, M. Ndlovu, P. Dube, D. Mindirira, ZPC Kariba: T. Mawaya, S. Appiah, J. Marufu, M. Kunyarimwe, I. Nekati, T. Munyanduri (S. Gorogodyo, 66th min), B. Zuberi, C. Muleya (N. Makumbe, 38th min) D. Temwanjira, T. Nyamandwi, T. Chamboko (T. Chiunye, 63rd min)