The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Universities Sports Association have revealed their participation at the forthcoming World Universities Student Games in Italy next month hangs in the balance due to some financial constraints. ZUSA had picked a 12-member team to represent the country in athletics and tennis but president, Life Chemhere, said they are still to raise the funds required for the trip. The 2019 Summer Universiade  will take place from July 3-14 in Napoli, Italy,  and Chemhere said they need about US$30 000 to send their team.   “As we speak we only have confirmation of three people funded by the International University Sports Federation. We have only three beneficiaries of that sponsorship, one official and two athletes. So far that’s the confirmation that we have. The rest of the athletes haven’t had confirmation in terms of funding. “One of the universities has confirmed they can’t afford. The other athletes from UZ and MSU are yet to confirm,” said Chemhere. While ZUSA could have benefited from local students based outside the country, Chemhere said they have to revisit their system as there has been lack of communication with those students making it difficult to rope them into their team since they had already entered their team for this year. One of the students who had indicated his willingness to represent Zimbabwe at the World Universities Student Games is United States-based sprinter Kundai Maguranyanga. Maguranyanga’s father, Joseph, recently told The Herald that his son “was dying” to represent Zimbabwe at this year’s World Universities Student Games and was willing to pay for his own airfares to Italy. Chemhere appealed to the corporate world and well-wishers for assistance. “It’s a pity that we can’t afford to send a handful of athletes to these Games and we are appealing to the corporate world for us to expose our athletes. I am still very hopeful that someone out there will hear our cry. “Should things continue like it is we will be left with no option but to send four people” said Chemhere. The team is expected to leave on July 1.