The Herald LONDON. — Lucas Torreira has thrown his Arsenal future into doubt by admitting he misses Italy and is fed up with the weather in England. Torreira made a huge impact on his arrival at the Emirates last summer in a £26 million move from Sampdoria — but his form tailed off badly in the second half of the season. AC Milan have been linked with a bid to take the 23-year-old back to Serie A after his former boss Marco Giampolo took over as manager at the San Siro. And Torreira has done little to quash the speculation he could be keen on a move away from Arsenal after just a year with the club. Torreira has admitted that he is struggling to adapt to life in England.
The Uruguayan international joined the Gunners in a £26 million move from Sampdoria last summer.
And Torreira has emerged as something of a cult hero among Arsenal fans for his all-action displays during his debut season. However, after an initially bright start, the 23-year-old faded somewhat in the second half of the campaign – particularly as Arsenal’s own Champions League aspirations went up in smoke. And now, amid growing interest from AC Milan, where his ex-Sampdoria boss Marco Giampaolo is set to take over, Torreira has been speaking about the difficulties he has had settling in in England. Asked about life in England, he told Uruguayan outlet Ovacion : “I don’t know if there are many things that I enjoy.
“I think it was better in Italy. England is a totally different world, a very large country. “The language (barrier) has stopped me, to be able to relate with my teammates and with the people. It is very difficult when you can’t have dialogue. “And so is the climate. You go out in the morning and it is cloudy, you arrive late to your home and it is cloudy.
“It is strange a little bit, the sun, the more of us that we are here and we are accustomed to having always or almost always the sun. But as the years pass, I’m going to be adapting.” Arsenal would be loathe to sell Torreira — who is on Copa America duty after a gruelling campaign with the Gunners.
Before departing Torreira told Arsenal Player that his favourite moment of the campaign was his goal in the North London derby win over Spurs in December. “It was a wonderful goal for me to score.
“It meant an awful lot. Scoring in the derby is the best thing that can happen to a player so I really enjoyed it.”
Torreira’s form tailed off as the season progressed as he struggled to adapt to the demands of the Premier League game. The midfielder is currently in Brazil preparing to help Urguay’s challenge for the Copa America, with their first game against Ecuador on Sunday. He added: “I had to get used to playing every three days, which is very hard. There were many more matches.
“But for me, the balance was positive and I am satisfied and happy with what I did in the year.” — The Mirror.