The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
MANICA Diamonds defender Partson Jaure needs to pass a fitness test if he is to face his former club Dynamos in a league match at Rufaro tomorrow. The former Warriors vice captain, who has been battling an ankle injury, is set to undergo a final assessment by the club’s doctors today ahead of the trip to Harare. Manica Diamonds coach Luke Masomere yesterday said Jaure’s chances of making the team depended on the report from the medical team. Another ex-DeMbare player Timire Mamvura is also set for a fitness test while Wisdom Mutasa, Ishmael Lawe, Tinashe Chigede and veteran Benjamin Marere have all been ruled out because of knocks. “We have been struggling with injuries since the start of the season, but the good thing is we have been fighting hard to get some results,’’ said the self-proclaimed Doctor of Football. “While I am not happy with the performances, I think we have done fairly well to be where we are considering we are playing all our games away from home. “I think we are far better off than many other teams. Apart from that, we find ourselves playing a very good team in Dynamos, with very good results in the last few games. “They have had their fair share of challenges, but a team that can go to FC Platinum and win needs not to be taken lightly. “It shows they are a team that has regained its formula and I think we will need to play our best football when we face them.’’ Masomere has in the past revealed he is a boyhood DeMbare fan. Manica Diamonds are coming from a morale-boosting 3-0 win over Yadah in their last game. However, the expensively-built side have blown hot and cold in their debut season and the coach is desperate to get his team firing consistently. One point separates the two sides on the log standings, with the Mutare-based newboys sitting on seventh place with 15 points, while DeMbare are two rungs below on 14 points after 10 games. Pressure will be on Glamour Boys to deliver a positive result in front of their home fans following the surprise 1-0 win over champions FC Platinum at Mandava in their last game. Their coach Tonderai Ndiraya said he has been battling this week to get his players focused. “In the past games, teams were not really taking us seriously, but because of the result that we got at Mandava, it means that every team will come prepared for us. That also puts us under some bit of pressure. Obviously, we have improved, but we are still the same team that we were two weeks ago,” said Ndiraya. DeMbare will be without their skipper Edward Sadomba, who picked a knock in the last game at Mandava. Cameroonians Claude Junior Ngahan and Vincent Mbega are still out with injuries, while Ghanaian Robert Sackey is still to make his debut because of a sore finger.