The Herald Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter
The death of Mangwe legislator Cde Obedingwa Mguni (Zanu-PF) united Parliament yesterday as legislators from across the political divide took turns in the National Assembly to pay their condolences. Speaker of the National Assembly, Advocate Jacob Mudenda announced the death of Cde Mguni, who was also Zanu-PF Deputy Chief Whip in the National Assembly, before inviting members to rise and observe a minute of silence in honour of the legislator. Cde Mguni succumbed to diabetes on Tuesday evening at a local hospital. In his announcement, Adv Mudenda said burial arrangements will be made known in due course. Bulilima West MP, Cde Dingumuzi Phuti (Zanu-PF), moved a motion for members to reflect on the good work that was done by Cde Mguni, who was at one time Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage. Kambuzuma Member of Parliament, Mr Willias Madzimure (MDC-Alliance), called for the need to strengthen Parliament’s clinic, saying had it been properly capacitated, Cde Mguni could have received better services. “It is also important that Parliament establishes what transpired from the time he was taken ill up to the time he was taken to a hospital,” said Mr Madzimure. Southerton Member of Parliament, Mr Peter Moyo (MDC-Alliance), said there was need to provide funding for the country’s health care. “It is quite untenable that during this day and age one dies of diabetes,” he said. “It is a disease that can be managed if proper facilities are at one’s    disposal.” After the three MPs made their contributions, the debate was adjourned to today. Cde Mguni was first elected into Parliament in the 2013 harmonised elections on a Zanu-PF ticket. He was eventually appointed Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage where he would field questions on behalf of the Ministry during question and answer sessions. He would also represent the Ministry in portfolio committee meetings on a number of policy issues where he demonstrated immense knowledge about the Ministry. In the July 30, 2018 harmonised election, he was re-elected to represent Mangwe constituency. He was eventually appointed Zanu-PF Deputy Chief Whip, where he was deputising Cde Pupurai Togarepi. Last year, Cde Mguni moved a motion calling for Government to extend the Constitutional provision for the women’s quota so that the country could consolidate the gains achieved during the last two terms.