The Herald Natasha Kokai Herald Reporter
Germany-based tourism organisation, Anerkannte Specialisation for Africa (ASA), has pledged to work with Zimbabwe Tourism Authority to boost the country’s tourism industry and increase its contribution to the national economy. ASA promotes tourism for southern and eastern Africa in Germany and the entire Europe through information dissemination and training of travel agents. In an interview with The Herald yesterday before their departure, ASA president Werner Gordes, who was leading a 10-member delegation that arrived on Sunday, said they were prepared to work with Zimbabwe to lure more international tourists into the country. “What we need from the Zimbabwean side on tourism is more support,” he said. “We need the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) to communicate with the private sector and to give us direction. “We, however, feel that the prices being charged in the industry are too high to attract more tourists. “The prices are not comparable with those in other southern African countries. There is need to rationalise them as a matter of urgency. “We have 120 members and some of them are in southern African countries. From tomorrow we will be discussing the destinations we have done and Zimbabwe will be one of those and we will come back for the next step.” Mr Gordes commended Zimbabwe for its hospitality services and said there is no other southern African country that offers the same services as Zimbabwe. “Speaking from a professional side, Zimbabwe comes first in terms of tourism, there is no doubt about it,” he said. “I have spoken to many people about Zimbabwe tourism and optimism is very high. Zimbabwe has to work hard in the sector because we want to bring in more tourists here. “Our experience in Zimbabwe was awesome. The people are friendly. “I have been to many countries and the people in Zimbabwe rank among the best. The food is exquisite and the service is excellent, everything is beautiful.” Mr Ulrich Bradner from Pan Natura Afrika, who was the delegation’s tour guide, said Zimbabwe has one of the best tourism attractions in the region, but there was need to do additional marketing to attract more visitors. “Zimbabwe has one of the best tourist attractions, but the marketing industry needs to intensify their work,” he said. “More people need to be made aware of the destinations and certainly more people will come.” The 10-member delegation toured Chirundu, Zambezi Valley and Mana Pools National Park.