The Herald Arts Reporters
Another month has lapsed and many people have been paid.
With buying power, merry makers should this weekend find their way to different events happening in various parts of the country.
All set for Man’sCave Tomorrow all roads lead to ZimParks Gardens, Mt Pleasant, for the second edition of the Man’s Cave, an interactive platform for men to relax, learn and network. The event — organised by BoldAds — will feature seasoned motivational speakers and high-flying executives like Memory Nguwi, the managing consultant of Industrial Psychology Consultants, Dr Munyaradzi Mujuru, PSMAS’ lifestyle manager and serial entrepreneur Chamu Chiwanza. Event spokesperson Chipo Mangwayana said they chose to host the event this month to celebrate Father’s Day belatedly. This also coincides with global commemorations for men’s health. The “gentlemen only event” will run under the theme: “Man-to-man – Creating a better world for all,” she said. “It will radically change lives and change the way men relate to and interact with business partners, family and particularly other men. It’s an opportunity to connect with other men from all backgrounds, ranks and different levels. The Man’s Cave offers a safe, non-judgemental, supportive space where men can explore the connections, modalities, challenges and exercises that facilitate real and lasting change.” Mangwayana said the tickets are already selling and Star FM’s DJ Mox “The Moxinator” will be the MC with a lot of programmes lined up. She said there will also be dance groups, braai and a cash bar. “The event gives ample time to partake in the conversations, drop the mask and speak the truth, man-to-man. “The intention is to create a safe and enjoyable weekend where men can be authentic, learn together and celebrate men’s month in style,” she said. The Man’s Cave is supported by the Zimpapers Group titles — The Sunday Mail, Capitalk FM, The Herald and ZTN. It is sponsored by clothing retailer, 4 May. Mukaro to launch third album
All is set for gospel musician Tafadzwa Mukaro’s third album launch scheduled to take place at 99 Parklane, Harare, tonight. The album titled “Vanondichengeta” was produced and mastered by Munya Vialy, Mcdonald Chidavaenzi and Lyton Ngolomi. It has eight tracks with songs like “The Holy Spirit,” “Ndashanda,” “Tibatei” and “Vanondichengeta” among others. The gospel diva’s husband and manager Wisdom Mukaro says everything is in place for the launch. “We have just finished the rehearsals and all is set for the third album launch. The album features some of the great local musicians who include Bethen Pasinawako Ngolomi and Kudzi Nyakudya. The album speaks about hope in God. It’s inspired by the desire to share the goodness of God with everyone,” he said. The guest of honour at the launch is Pastor Charles Charamba. Selmor bids farewell
Celebrated afro-fusion musician Selmor Mtukudzi this weekend bids farewell to Zimbabwe as she sets for a tour of the United Kingdom                                                               (UK). The musician, who has been doing very well to keep her father —the late Oliver “Tuku” Mtukudzi’s legacy alive through monthly performances in his honour, will stage a farewell concert at Food Nest Restaurant at Longcheng Plaza tonight. She will perform alongside musician Diana Samkange before heading to Bindura, where she will hold the monthly “KwaTuku” show alongside Dendera musician Sulumani Chimbetu at Tendai Hall tomorrow night. Jazz and Soul Music Night
A heart catching jazz and soul music while gazing on magnificent paintings, sculptures and all that’s visual art, tonight will truly be a magical night at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe. Rising jazz musician Raven Duchess will perform with guest star, Toronto based guitarist Matt Greenwood. John Cole Unplugged
It’s dance like you have never seen it at the recently opened Jason Mphepo Little Theatre as celebrated choreographer John Cole goes on an experimental journey with seasoned drummer Scara. The duo will tonight perform in what has been dubbed “John Cole Unplugged.” At the same venue Saturday evening is a much hyped fashion show “Entomologia: The Invasion” featuring seasoned local designers. Land Rover Ambassador’s Cup
It’s polo, wine and fashion at what has turned to be a must attend event on local calendar, the annual Land Rover Ambassador’s Cup is on this Saturday. Dubbed the “Ruwa July,” the event presents a great mixture of business, wine and fashion, all the while cheering men on horsebacks. Entertainment will be provided by renowned drummer Blessing Chimanga. Gallery Delta Anniversary exhibition One of Harare’s most celebrated contemporary Gallery Delta will on Saturday celebrate 45 years since its establishment in 1975. Themed “Engaging the 45th year” the celebration will feature an exhibition of paintings, graphics, sculptures and ceramics by mature, mid-career and young artists. European Union Ambassador Timo Olkkonen will be the guest of honour at this event which will also feature celebrated clarinetist Louis Siankope. Oliver Mtukudzi’s protégé Munya Matarutse will hold his weekly Sunday evening gigs at Pakare Paye Arts Centre backed by his band Kazevezeve. In recent weeks, Matarutse has been attracting a full house. Meanwhile, Norton-based poet VaChikepe  — real name Takudzwa Chikepe  — will be performing his first solo act on Saturday, at the same venue.