The Herald Albert Marufu in LONDON, England
ZIMBABWE-BORN British welterweight boxer Tamuka Muchapondwa has severed ties with his Frank Warren Promotions trainer Andy Ayling and joined Dave Coldwell’s Coldwell Boxing Management stable. At Coldwell Boxing Management, Muchapondwa joins former British heavyweight champion Derrick Chisora, Antony Flower and Jammie Mcdonnell.
Coldwell Boxing Management confirmed the union in a brief message on their official Facebook page: “Talented welterweight Tamuka Mucha (Muchapondwa) is the latest addition to the Coldwell Boxing Management stable. Keep an eye out for fight news soon!” Muchapondwa, who has won 17 of his 18 professional fights, told The Herald that he and his former trainer Ayling mutually terminated their three-year contract which was at its halfway stage. “My former trainer Ayling was failing to organise fights for me and we agreed that I have to move on. I have been with Ayling for 16 months and fights were not coming. I had to look for what is best for me and Ayling agreed with me,” he said. Muchapondwa also expressed gratitude to the support he received from compatriot and former British heavyweight champion Chisora.
“As soon as I terminated my contract with Ayling, I contacted Chisora who facilitated the meeting with Coldwell. He is a very experienced and talented trainer and with many boxers such as Chisora under his wings,” he said. Muchapondwa added: “I am looking forward to a great working relationship with Coldwell. I am fit and ready. I hope to get a fight in July or September but I will leave all that to my management.” Muchapondwa also appealed for corporate sponsorship.
“Now that I have signed to Coldwell Boxing Management and I’m working amongst good fighters such as Dereck Chisora, Anthony Fowler and Jamie Mcdonell, my team and I are looking for sponsors to help me with training expenses. In return I will advertise you or your business as I look to get the big fights with Josh Kelly and Conor Benn. ‘‘If anyone is interested and want to be part of team Mucha please get in contact and let’s make the best and big fights happen,” he said.
Muchapondwa’s last fight came in March this year when he emerged victorious in a non–title contest against Mexican Fernando Valencia at Bracknell Leisure Centre in Bracknell, England. This was his first competitive fight in 22 months since losing to Cameroonian Serge Ambomo on May 10, 2017. Successive fights have either been postponed or cancelled for various reasons depriving Muchapondwa the opportunity for a shot at the British title.