The Herald Enacy Mapakame Business Reporter
Coal producer Hwange Colliery Company Limited (HCCL) says preparations for the 2019 Kamadama Mine Disaster commemorations are at an advanced stage. About 430 miners lost their lives after an explosion at the mine in 1972. The memorial will be held over a two-day period with a golf tournament on June 5, at Hwange Golf Club, while the Mine Disaster Memorial service will take place the following day on at the Number Two memorial site. The Memorial Service will be graced by the Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in Matabeleland North Mr Richard Moyo. Hwange corporate affairs manager Rugare Dhobbie, said they were targeting to raise at least $30 000 that will assist the widows and dependants of the Kamandama Mine disaster. “For the golf tournament, about 120 amateur golfers are expected to take to the greens at the Hwange Golf Club for a worthy cause as the thrust will be fundraise for the widows and dependants of the 1972 Kamandama Mine Disaster,” she said. The events will run under the theme “Embrace and Practice Safety Always to Prevent another Disaster — Commemorating the Kamandama Victims”. On June 6, 1972, an explosion at Number Two claimed 427 miners, was caused by a methane gas explosion, which was followed by a cold dust explosion. The miners died after the methane gas explosion ripped through the shaft, trapping them inside and it remains the country’s worst mine disaster. Over a third of those who perished were citizens of neighbouring countries of Malawi, Namibia, Mozambique and Botswana. The accident has ushered in a new and better approach to safety management in the mining sector and it heightened safety consciousness within Hwange Colliery and the mining industry in general. Over 2 300 people comprising widows of the tragic disaster, their dependants, HCCL employees, local business community, various trade unions, churches, business associates, suppliers, customers and strategic partners are expected be at the shrine. The competition will be held under 4 better ball hidden partner competition format. “The golfers are expected to have been registered by June 2, 2019.  In the 2018 edition, Hwange-based golfer Joseph Ncube took the first prize in the men’s category while lady golfer Shelly Gwanonga demonstrated her prowess by coming tops in the ladies’ division,” said Ms Dhobbie.