The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
RUGBY star, Tendai “Beast” Mtawarira, says Zimbabwe will always occupy a special place in his heart even when he is far away representing his adopted country South Africa. Mtawarira, who has transformed himself into one of South African rugby’s favourite sons, was yesterday unveiled as the country’s tourism brand ambassador by the Minister of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry, Priscah Mupfumira. The Government recognised the 33-year-old prop for his influence, on and off the pitch, following a successful career in South Africa where he has pushed boundaries to put his name among the game’s greats. “Thank you so much for this amazing honour for naming me the ambassador for tourism here in Zimbabwe,’’ said Beast. ‘’Ever since I moved across the border, I have never forgotten where I come from. “I know I represent South Africa on the big stage, internationally, but one thing I have never forgotten is my roots. “To be an ambassador for tourism for me is just going to come easily because I always like to market Zimbabwe to all the people that I come across all over the world. “When I am not playing the game, I love coming home and spending time in Victoria Falls and in Kariba. ‘’I always tell my friends and my teammates to always bring their families here and just get to see the riches this country has.” Mtawarira was born and raised in Zimbabwe but left the country just over a decade ago to pursue his career in South Africa. Since he made his senior debut with the Sharks in 2007, his profile has been on the rise with several milestones to his name in South African rugby. Mtawarira became the first black African to play 100 Tests for the Springboks last year. He added another feather on his cap when he set a new record for being the most capped South African in Vodacom Super Rugby after eclipsing Adriaan Strauss’s record of 156 appearances, earlier this year. Despite making his name in South Africa, Mtawarira has always been in touch with his home country where he has also ploughed back through charitable activities. Mupfumira said they roped in Mtawarira in recognition for his hard work. “The concept of Tourism Brand Ambassadors is widely used as a tool for promoting many destinations across the globe. “People are appointed Tourism Ambassadors for their ability to significantly contribute to the promotion of destinations with the main objective of increasing tourism traffic… “The man we have gathered to celebrate and in turn confer as Tourism Ambassador needs no introduction, the veteran Sharks front rower, the Beast, is famous for being the first black Springbok to play 100 Tests and even eclipsed Adriaan Strauss as South Africa’s most capped Super Rugby player. “Given all his fame on the global rugby arena, he has remained grounded. ‘’His humility is worth admiring and his involvement with two major charities here in Zimbabwe, both committed to helping children in school and sport has earned himself the status of philanthropist. “His love for Zimbabwe shines through his dedication and hard work, and above all leading by example in whatever he does in his life,” said Mupfumira.