The Herald Gold prices surged to their highest in more than five years yesterday after the US Federal Reserve signalled a possible interest rate cut as early as next month, pressuring US Treasury yields and the dollar. Spot gold was up 1,7 percent at $1 382,61 per ounce as of 1019 GMT, after hitting its highest since March 17, 2014 at $1 386,38 earlier. Gold prices have gained about $80 so far this month. US gold futures jumped 2,8 percent to $1 386,30 an ounce, after touching their highest since April 2018 at $1 397,70. “The driver for the surge is obviously the Fed delivering the dovish tilt that the market was looking for. It removed the ‘patience’ approach to cutting rates,” said Saxo Bank commodity strategist Ole Hansen said. The US Federal Reserve on Wednesday signalled interest rate cuts beginning as early as July, saying it is ready to battle growing global and domestic economic risks as it took stock of rising trade tensions and growing concerns about weak inflation. Lower interest rates decrease the opportunity cost of holding non-yielding bullion and weigh on the dollar, making gold cheaper for investors holding other currencies. The Fed’s rate signal came before meetings at other major central banks in Asia and Europe that were expected to flag similar moves. The European Central Bank and the Australian central bank had signalled this week more policy stimulus was needed. “The main reason why we are seeing interest rate expectations being reduced so dramatically is because economic data is not moving up to previous strength and that has also raised questions of how much further stock markets could continue to benefit from these rate cuts,” Hansen said. Even though the US central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged for now, the shift in the Fed’s view since its last policy meeting weighed on the dollar and US Treasury yields. “The (gold’s) move higher looks constructive for a further test toward $1 400 as participants focus upon the Fed’s dovish skew, with potential targets extending toward $1 450 should near-term support around $1 375 remain intact,” MKS PAMP Group said in a note. — Reuters.