The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
THE new Sports Commission board yesterday flexed their muscles when they ordered Zimbabwe Cricket to suspend their Elective Annual General Meeting which was scheduled for Victoria Falls today. The meeting was set to usher in elections for a new board of directors. But the Sports Commission yesterday said they noted various irregularities and constitutional violations. The Sports Commission indicated that all the processes under the association’s domain, including the forensic audit that was commissioned by the Government in 2018, should be discontinued. In a correspondence directed to the ZC Acting Managing Director, Givemore Makoni, yesterday, the Sports Commission’s director general, Prince Mupazviriho, said the Board has no faith in the integrity and quality of the Auditor appointed in August 2018, to carry out an investigation into the financial affairs of the association. A new firm will be appointed to institute an urgent forensic audit while the elective AGM will only take place on a new date to be advised. “It has come to our attention that the Elective Annual General Meeting for Zimbabwe Cricket is slated for Friday, 14th June 2019. “The Sports and Recreation Commission has received complaints regarding the nomination process in Mashonaland Central and Harare Provinces. “Violations of Zimbabwe Cricket’s own constitution and in particular Section 32 to 36 thereof have been alleged. SRC is also in possession of a Court application filed by Mr Z. Damiso against Mr W. Chaitezvi and the Chairman of Zimbabwe Cricket as well as yourself. “You will also be aware of the forensic audit report commissioned by the SRC to:
“1. Conduct objective and independent investigations of all matters brought to its attention involving financial misconduct, irregularities of a financial nature and the commission of economic offenses. 2. Determine the total revenue and examine the authenticity of all the expenditure incurred for the respective years of 2015, 2016 and 2017. 3.Ascertain receivable and/or payables related to the years in question for Zimbabwe Cricket. 4.Assess allegations of theft, fraud and corruption.
“In light of these and numerous other controversies relating to Zimbabwe Cricket and its financial and governance structures, the SRC, as resolved by the Board hereby directs that all or any electoral processes including any electoral AGM for a new Board of Directors forthwith be suspended until further notice.
“This directive is issued in terms of Section 19 (a) and (b) of the SRC Act, as read with Section 20 (c) thereof. Your attention is drawn to Section 30 of the same Act in the event that any attempt is made to disregard this directive,” wrote Mupazviriho. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe men’s national team has been boosted by the return to full fitness of the star duo of captain Hamilton Masakadza and Brendan Taylor ahead of the tour to the Netherlands for two one-day international matches and as many Twenty20 international games. The two experienced players missed the ODI series at home to the United Arab Emirates in April, with Masakadza nursing a left thumb injury while Taylor was sidelined by a right calf muscle tear. Following their full recovery, both of them have been included in Zimbabwe’s 16-man squad that is set to leave for the Netherlands tomorrow. Three of the players who faced the UAE — Regis Chakabva, Timycen Maruma and Brian Chari — have missed out on the latest tour as they are currently playing in England. Zimbabwe will, however, still travel with a strong squad that, apart from Masakadza and Taylor, includes Craig Ervine, Sikandar Raza, Sean Williams, Solomon Mire, Tendai Chatara and Kyle Jarvis. Uncapped left-arm spinner Ainsley Ndlovu has been retained and he will be hoping to finally make his bow during the tour, while opening batsman Tinashe Kamunhukamwe has also made the cut. The Lalchand Rajput-coached side will first face the Netherlands in the ODIs scheduled for 19 and 21 June before the two sides clash in the T20I matches set for 23 and 25 June. From there, Zimbabwe will proceed to Ireland where they will play three ODI matches and as many T20I games.
The ODI series against Ireland is scheduled for July 1, 4 and 7, while the T20I matches are slated for July10, 12 and 14.
Zimbabwe Squad Hamilton Masakadza (captain), Brendan Taylor, Peter Moor, Solomon Mire, Sean Williams, Sikandar Raza, Donald Tiripano, Kyle Jarvis, Tendai Chatara, Chris Mpofu, Craig Ervine, Ainsley Ndlovu, Elton Chigumbura, Richmond Mutumbami, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, Ryan Burl