The Herald Senior Arts Reporter
Despite power cuts that affected the inaugural “Friday Fashion Fete”, which was held over the weekend at Food Nest, the event lived to its billing and was highly attended. The glitz and glamour show, which ran under the theme “Tackling common errors committed in ladies and gents’ formal dressing”, saw local top fashionistas, stylists, bloggers, models, musicians and designers exchanging notes. Event host Anesu Mhembere (Minister of White Linen) shared the stage with award-winning fashion blogger and stylist Lillian Madyara (Hollywood Lee) and the duo put up a splendid presentation on how people should dress for work before a fashion show by Pleru was presented while music sensation Ccicci did a rendition of Adele’s hit song “Hello”. It was a fashion fete as guests also later posed for photographs on the red carpet which was hosted by Tafadzwa Munyenyiwa and Tarisai Mukondo. Master of ceremony Trish Carmen sailed flawlessly during her segment. Speaking on the sidelines of the event, founder member of ‘FFF’, Mhembere said he was happy with how people responded to the call. “Fashion is Zimbabwe is somehow not taken seriously as a profession, but I was happy with how the corporates supported the initiative. I was also shocked by the huge attendance of local fashion bugs. “The event is going to be held after every two months and I have learned a lot from this one. We are going to endorse some of the corporates who now want to work with us. “Most people believe in the aftermath rather than the birth and we know many others will come aboard,” he said. Mhembere said he got the idea of hosting such events from a friend while they were having coffee. “In Zimbabwe there are no professional fashion chats, so one day my friend and I were talking about it and this is how I came up with the event. “If it’s not about red carpet at the awards shows or some prominent functions, there are few fashion events to talk about. “We have noticed people love to dress for occasions, but they don’t have people to assist or stylist to help them,” he said. The event saw prominent faces like Thembani Mubochwa, Alois Bunjira, former Miss Zim World queen Tendai Hunda, Cape Town-based male runway model Tinotenda Mjoni, Tendai Nyakanyanga (Cde Nyax of Ethnic Wear brand) and Rebecca Muchenje (Miss Becky) in attendance.