The Herald Herald Reporter
ZIMPAPERS yesterday launched a state-of-the-art gym facility for its workforce in Harare as part of the company’s transformation process.
The gym is fitted with modern equipment which includes the Olympic Grey Hemmerton plate, Olympic bar holders, sit-up benches, weight benches, incline benches, commercial spinning bike, commercial treadmill and leg extension, among others. Officially opening the facility, ZIMPAPERS Group Chief Executive Mr Pikirayi Deketeke urged workers to take part in body-building exercises to maintain good health. “We have finally opened our own gym here. The issue of wellness has become a worldwide phenomenon and therefore we need to take care of our bodies because we take care of everything else. “A facility where members can best achieve their health and fitness goals is good for business. “We need to keep fit through exercising to achieve good health.
“Nowadays people who lack exercise are prone to attack by a lot of diseases,” said Mr Deketeke. Mr Deketeke, who has a passion for bodybuilding, said activities like weight training and aerobic exercises reduce the risk of high blood pressure, obesity and high cholesterol. “Sometimes we recommend people to stand instead of sitting. You burn more calories when standing than just sitting with no exercise.
“Our ambition as workers is to be fit to prevent diseases. We will end up having a healthy workforce and a healthy society,” he added. He urged the workers to utilise the company gym facility, which is affordable. The company has roped in professional fitness trainers to assist the work- force. “We have brought in expert trainers who will assist us to do the right thing. It does not matter how old we are and how young we are, we need to exercise to create a transformed Zimpapers,” said Mr Deketeke. Mr Deketeke, who retired from being a body-building administrator, said the company is in a transformation process. “We are changing as a business and we are changing as a people. It is not just about money that we get paid but it is about how we maintain ourselves. We will continue transforming the people, market, society and business,” he said.