The Herald Cloud Fusire Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Under-18 rugby team is today expected to leave for the 56th edition of the Craven Week to be held in Bloemfontein, South Africa.
The six-day event is slated to run from July 1 to 6 and will see more than 20 teams that include South Africa’s top provincial sides like Boland, Sharks, Limpopo and Blue Bulls XV battle for silverware. Zimbabwe and Namibia will add the international flavour. The Zimbabwe team will tomorrow play three practice games against Blue Bulls, Springboks Under-18s and Pretoria Select teams before they travel to the host city, Bloemfontein. The Young Sables will kick-off the tournament against Boland and then conclude with a highly anticipated meeting against their arch-rivals Namibia.
The 24-member squad led by coach Gordon Pangeti believe they have left no stone unturned after they rounded off their preparations with an intensive training camp at Heritage School in Harare. Pangeti, who announced his final 24-man team at the weekend, believes they are perfectly positioned to leave a lasting impression at the tournament this year. “Preparations have been good and we have been trying to get our defensive patterns and everything together.
“We will begin our journey with three friendly games this weekend against the Blue Bulls, Springboks Under-18 and Pretoria Select. We believe that if we win all our friendly games, we will gain more confidence ahead of the tournament.
“We are happy with the positive mentality and desire the young boys are showing during our training and I’m confident that they will raise our national flag high,” said Pangeti. The Old Mutual Zimbabwe Under-18 Squad
Lance Annandale, Aaron Juma, Derek Smit, Craig Snyder, Takunda Makiwa , Frederik Muller, Connor Campbell-Sparrow, Jason Makwabarara, Ethan Wilson, Tinomukudza Chipfumbu, Kwesi Owusu, Dylan Grant, Leon Misichili, Kudakwashe Soropa, Rukudzo Munyeza, Cole Onorati, Joshua Mukandi, Tomuvonga Msasanure , Gary Kagande, Makanakaishe Charamba, Tereraishe Yekeye, John Campbell, Stephen Terera, Munashe Rushwaya
Coach: Gordon Pangeti
Assistant coach: Basil Dingiswayo
Physiotherapist: Anne Butau
Team manager: Simbarashe Dangah