The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
TOP seed at the at the ongoing Old Mutual International Tennis Federation Futures tournament Takanyi Garanganga stormed into the semi-finals after dismissing Markus Schultz 6-4, 6-1 yesterday at Harare Sports Club. Garanganga, who on Thursday beat fellow-Zimbabwean Mehluli Sibanda in straight sets in the second round, cruised into the semi-finals without dropping a set after another fine day against Schultz in the quarter-finals yesterday.  Coming from a break from action, Garanganga expressed satisfaction with the progress he is making. “Like I said before, I haven’t been playing tournaments for a while and this is my first tournament in like five, six weeks, so I am glad that I am getting back into the match fitness and just understanding the tempo of the game, so I am happy with it,” said Garanganga. The Davis Cup team member is the only Zimbabwean player remaining on course and said he is taking it one match at a time. Garanganga has a date against S D Prajwal Dev of India, who beat Lucas Catarina 1-6, 6-2, 6-2 in the other quarter-final match. The other semi-final is between fourth seed Guy Orly Iradukunda and Beran. It was a day of mixed fortunes as Benjamin Lock lost to 3-6, 6-4, 0-6 to Martin Beran of Canada in a match that lasted 2 hours 17 minutes. After Beran took the first set, Lock made a comeback in the second set, it appeared there was hope for the Zimbabwean player. But it wasn’t just his day as he struggled with his game and frustration also crept in and Beran took the last set 6-0 to win the match. Benjamin and his younger brother Courtney also lost their doubles semi-final match to the pair of S D Prajwal Dev and Rishi Reddy 7-5, 7-6 (4) in a closely-contested match that could have gone either way. It was a disappointment for the Lock brothers, seeded first in this tournament. They had a good outing last year clinching all the three doubles titles when Zimbabwe hosted the same events last year at the same venue.