The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
THERE is going to be a lot of soul-searching in the CAPS United camp this week after they were outwitted by Chicken Inn in a top-of-the-table Castle Lager Premiership battle at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. Makepekepe were outplayed for the better part of the match after their game-plan suffered paralysis against the visitors who appeared to have read their tactics well. The wings, where Phineas Bamusi and Gabriel Nyoni have destroyed many opponents with their speed this season, were clipped. There were no clean supplies from the thriving midfield where Joel Ngodzo and Blessing Sarupinda succumbed to Clement Matawu and Tichaona Chipunza. Chicken Inn employed a high pressing game-plan and it appeared Makepekepe had no other plan in place. Because of the pressure, goalkeeper Chris Mverechena and his defenders were guilty of several gaffes as they tried to force play from the back. However, CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe still backed his team to pick up the pieces and continue with the fight in the championship race. CAPS United have been tipped among the favourites for the league title this season. “It’s not correct, all of a sudden to pick on a lot of mistakes in one single game. It’s also important for me as a coach to respect the efforts of the boys,’’ said coach Lloyd Chitembwe. “They have done us proud especially from the first game up until today. “So, you can’t really pick out on the mistakes in one game. We are very experienced to understand that some of these things do happen in a game of football. “It was not by design; it was not by choice. “I have a responsibility as a coach to make sure I support them during this time. They need me the most and all we need is to make sure we pick ourselves up for the next game. “I strongly believe we have the talent and the right kind of motivation. We need to go and win the next game considering what happened in this game. “So, we are not really looking much into this game because it is not going to change anything even if we dwell on the mistakes. “But I am looking at the positives because they are the ones that obviously energises the team going into the next game.’’