The Herald Ellen Chasokela Herald Reporter
OVER 10 000 children from across the country will today converge at the City Sports Centre in Harare for the 27th Session of the Junior Parliament of Zimbabwe, expected to be opened by President Mnangagwa. The session is part of the Day of the African Child commemorations being held this year under the theme: “Humanitarian Action in Africa: Children’s Rights First.” The Day of the African Child was initiated in 1991 by the then Organisation of African Unity Assembly, which designated June 16, in honour of children who participated in South Africa’s Soweto Uprising in 1976. Addressing the media yesterday, the Deputy Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Yeukai Simbanegavi, said Junior Parliament was an opportunity for children to organise themselves and come up with common goals for their development. “Junior Parliament serves as a leadership development and advocacy arm of Government on the rights and welfare of children which facilitates participation of children and young people in governance issues,” she said. “It mirrors the structure of senior Parliament with as many parliamentarians as the senior Parliament fielded in each constituency. “The 27th Session is an opportune moment to take stock of the progress made and the outstanding challenges towards the full realisation of the rights of young people in Zimbabwe under the new dispensation. “The session will also see the Junior Parliament actively advocating for child-friendly policies, full implementation of programmes and Government support in outreach programmes required to reach young people and children in their various constituencies.’’ Deputy Minister Simbanegavi said the Junior Parliament was aimed at making policy makers appreciate children’s experiences, concerns, recommendations and put into place systems for children’s benefit. Officially opening the inaugural Junior Parliament under the Second Republic last year, President Mnangagwa said: “This really is one of the highlights of my job. To talk with, and listen to so many young, intelligent, civic-minded Zimbabweans fills me with optimism and hope. “My message to all the youth of Zimbabwe is that the new dispensation is about you. You are the future. You are the great hope of this nation. I urge you all to keep debating and discussing the big issues for in the new Zimbabwe while we may not always agree with one another, we must always say yes to fruitful dialogue, and no to violence.”