The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor ZIMBABWE are gearing up to make their maiden appearance in the much-anticipated Kabaddi World Cup in Melaka, Malaysia, next month. The tournament, which was postponed earlier this year due to some technical reasons, would now be held from July 20-28 in Melaka. Kabaddi is a contact team sport. Played between two teams of seven players, the objective of the game is for a single player on offence, referred to as a “raider”, to run into the opposing team’s half of a court, tag out as many of their defenders as possible, and return to their own half of the court, all without being tackled by the defenders, and in a single breath. Points are scored for each player tagged by the raider, while the opposing team earns a point for stopping the raider. Players are taken out of the game if they are tagged or tackled, but are brought back in for each point scored by their team from a tag or tackle. The sport is popular in the Indian subcontinent and other surrounding Asian countries. Although accounts of Kabaddi appear in the histories of both ancient India and ancient Sistan, the game was popularised as a competitive sport in the 20th century by India. And at this year’s Kabaddi World Cup, more than 35 countries, including Zimbabwe, are expected to take part in the men’s category and were drawn into eight groups of four. Zimbabwe will battle it out against the USA as well as Poland and Italy in Group G. Zimbabwe will be one of the most inexperienced teams at the event, but team manager Muzondiwa Gilbert Makowah says the charges will be equal to the task. In Malaysia, Dhruvkumar Pathak will be the captain of Team Zimbabwe, whose other players are Emmanuel Tendai Jambwa, David Kanduna, Victor Kazembe, Waybill Chimusoro, Pearson Jongwe, Leadme Muhlohla, Brian Kadzansa, Sydney Musindo, Foster Chakanyuka, Clive Maruza, Stephen Dondo, Richard Rusike and Simbarashe Mishoni. World Kabaddi will be meeting the team’s airfares and accommodation expenses ,but for now, Makowah said, they are making frantic efforts to find a sponsor for a training camp before their departure for Malaysia. Kabaddi is a relatively new sport whose roots are in India and Zimbabwe is the only country from the SADC region participating at the World Cup this year. Meanwhile, Malaysia Kabaddi Federation (MKF), who are hosting the competition under the auspices of the World Kabaddi, have confirmed the new dates of the World Cup following confirmation by its partners, including the television broadcasters. The world fiesta was initially slated to run from April 6 to 15, but World Kabaddi secretary and organising committee chairman ST Arasu recently told their official website that the tournament will now be staged from July 20 to 28. He said that the new dates were fixed to ensure that the World Cup Kabaddi gained maximum international television exposure. “Over the last month, we have been actively engaging our broadcast partners and we can now assure that the World Cup would be broadcast live in more than 50 countries around the world,” said Arasu. A total of 40 matches are expected to be televised, live while the remaining matches would be streamed live on the official website at www.worldcupkabaddi.org. He added that the change of dates had also allowed the World Kabaddi and MKF to resolve various pending issues that had affected the organisation of the tournament earlier. More than 35 countries, including Zimbabwe, are slated to participate at the 2019 Kabaddi World Cup with teams coming from all five continental bodies. “We have also received a number of new applications from Asia and Europe participate at the tournament. “A decision on this is expected to be made soon,” said Arasu. He added that should there be any new additions or exclusions, a new draw is expected to be conducted before the start of the tournament. “We have had tremendous support from all relevant partners as well as members of the World Kabaddi and expect the same level of support from everyone,” said Arasu. He said that member countries have continued with their training programme and would be much better prepared for the tournament in July. The nine-day tournament will be held in a specially designed arena adjacent to the Temasek Hotel in Melaka.