The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
Newly-appointed FC National Mbare coach, Thanks Tengwe, has declared that his side will survive the chop despite anchoring the log table in the ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League. The Mbare community-owned team will make a shot trip to an equally struggling Blue Swallows at Manyame Airbase today. Tengwe, a former coach of the now-defunct former Premiership side Gunners, recently took over the hot seat at the Mbare-based side with the aim of surviving relegation after the club had managed only seven points from the opening 12 matches. “We need to survive and we are going to survive as we have quality players in the team whom I believe can do the job. “I know the task is difficult, but we are from Mbare and we are used to soldiering on, especially in tough situations and that is what we are going to do. “The team is good and they only need to be well-prepared mentally by winning just one match to make them believe that we can do it,” said Tengwe. The ex-Premiership striker took over from Romeo Kabesha and Evans Gwekwerere last week following a run of poor results which saw FC National Mbare registering a single win, four draws and seven losses. Tichaona Tashaya, the club chairman, said they are looking forward to start picking up points so that they remain in the league. Elsewhere today, Herentals Under-20 will face Karoi United at Chikangwe without Luke Lungu, who was sent-off  in last weekend’s match against Harare City Cubs. The students are on position three and still await the verdict for the match against Beta X1 in which their bouncers are alleged to have beaten the opposition players at Motor Action during a Week 10 encounter. Log leaders Cranborne Bullets, who now have a six-point cushion, visit Grain Tigers at GMB Aspindale. Northern Region Fixtures Today: Karoi United v Herentals U-20 (Chikangwe), Banket United v Black Mambas (Kuwadzana), Grain Tigers v Cranborne Bullets (GMB Aspindale), Chegutu Pirates  v Golden Valley (Chakari), Ngezi Platinum U-19 v PAM United (Pfupajena), Blue Swallows v FC National Mbare (Manyame), CAM and Motor v Kariba Waves (Rimuka), Black Tigers v Blue Jets (Motor Action) Harare City Cubs v Beta X1 (Dzivarasekwa). Eastern Region Fixtures Today: Greenfuel v Grayham (B Arena), Tenax v FC Makaha (Mutare Boys High), Melfort v Mutare City (Melfort), Chipinge Stars v Masvingo United (Gaza), Surrey v Bikita Minerals (Surrey), Renco Mine v Mwenezana (Renco), Buffaloes v Ruwa Pro Grp (Sakubva), Chiredzi Stars v United Lions (Chishamiso). Southern Region Fixtures Today: Main Line v Mosi Rovers (Plumtree), Moto Moto v Arenal Movers (Mpumalanga), Ahax Hotspurs v Talen Vision (Crescent), Toronto v CIWU (Brd barracks), Indhlovu Iyanyathela v Makomo (Brad Barracks), Casmyn v Byo City (Turk Mine), Binga Pirates v ZPC Hwange).