The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
CRANBORNE Bullets coach Nesbert “Yabo” Saruchera will not look much into their opponents Cam and Motor’s current form when they travel to Rimuka for a ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League match this afternoon. The army side are enjoying a nine-point lead at the top of the table and are in high spirits after maintaining a clean sheet when they beat visiting Banket United on Wednesday. Bullets meant business from the start of the season and are yet to lose a match in 14 starts.
Their coach Saruchera said they are taking each game as it comes.
“I am looking forward to the upcoming games and I hope to continue collecting as many points as possible.
“The team is doing very well and I think we are in the right path. “We are not going to look at how the opponents performed in their last encounter, but to take the game seriously,” said Saruchera.
The other match will see a resurgent Herentals Under-20 traveling to Pfupajena for a date with Ngezi Platinum Under-19.
The Students’ coach, Paul Benza, said they need to improve on their away performance.
“I think we need to pick up points on the road so that we remain in the race.
“We managed to win against Blue Swallows on Wednesday, which should give us the much-needed confidence,” said Benza. Northern Region Fixtures
Today: Blue Swallows v Beta X1 (Manyame), Ngezi Platinum U-19 v Herentals U-20 (Pfupajena), Chegutu Pirates v FC National Mbare (Chakari), Grain Tigers v PAM United (GMB Aspindale), Banket United v Golden Valley (Kuwadzana), CAM and Motor v Cranborne Bullets (Rimuka), Kariba Waves v Blue Jets (Nyamhunga).
Tomorrow: Karoi United v Harare City Cubs (Chikangwe), Black Tigers v Black Mambas (Motor Action). Eastern Region Fixtures
Mwenezana v United Lions (Mwenezana), Bikita Minerals v Renco Mine (Luthium), Masvingo United v Surrey (Mucheke), Mutare City v Chipinge Stars (Sakubva), FC Makaha v Melfort (Chikondoma), Grayham v Tenax (Ruvheneko), Ruwa Pro Grp v Greenfuel (Chiremba), Buffaloes v Chiredzi Stars (Sakubva).