The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere Sports Reporter
Zimbabwe Cricket have maintained a clear conscience after coming under fire from the Sports and Recreation Commission for disregarding the directive to hold an elective annual general meeting last Friday. ZC conducted their elective congress last week in Victoria Falls that retained Tavengwa Mukuhlani as the chairman. However, the Sports Commission had, on the eve of the election, directed the cricket board to adjourn the process, citing, among other things, constitutional violations and the pending Mashonaland Central elections which are before the courts. Mukuhlani said they continued with the AGM after getting the blessing of the delegates and the International Cricket Council. “We received a letter from (the) SRC a day before the AGM to stop the AGM, as said the meeting is a delegates meeting, so we waited for the delegates to approve or not to hold the AGM. “Before the arrival of the delegates, I had a telephone conversation with the chairman of the ICC about the SRC directive and he did indicate that constitutes interference. “ICC advised us to proceed with the AGM and when the delegates came, we explained everything and they came up with a resolution that the AGM must proceed,” said Mukuhlani. On Monday, the Sports Commission said ZC had defied their order and gave them a 12 midday deadline on Tuesday to explain the decision to continue with the elections against their directive. In their reservations of the ZC’s annual meeting, the Sports Commission noted some irregularities in the nomination process, but yesterday the country’s cricket motherbody insisted all their efforts were procedural. “As far as we are concerned as Zimbabwe Cricket, we have not violated any section of the SRC Act in fulfilling our mandate to have an AGM. “We are yet to see that section where we have actually violated or transgressed by having an AGM. “I actually thought that the problem in this country is that national associations are not having elections, they do not have audited accounts, they do not hold AGMs, but I am surprised that we are now a subject of discussion because we have fulfilled our constitutional requirement to hold an AGM. “We have also fulfilled the requirement of the Act to have an AGM and to have audited accounts. At our AGM, that’s when we approve our audited accounts, which we sent to the SRC and ICC. 