The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
WITH less than two weeks to go before the African Cup of Nations burst into life, the Warriors Fundraising Committee will get down to business of mobilising funds for the senior national football team by hosting a fund-raising dinner at a local hotel in Harare on Wednesday. President Mnangagwa is expected to be the guest of honour. The Nations Cup finals will run from June 21 to July 19 and the Warriors will play the hosts Egypt in the opening match. Yesterday, the fundraising committee’s Communications Sub Committee Chairperson, Eve Gadzikwa, in a statement, called on different stakeholders to support the national team. “As the Fundraising Committee, we are inviting all stakeholders to come on board and support the Warriors. I must also assure the nation at large that all resources realised from this campaign will be applied towards their rightful purpose and fully accounted for. We are mindful of the need to be transparent and accountable in our dealings to earn the trust of stakeholders. “We are targeting to raise US$500 000 which will go towards the upkeep of the Warriors and other ancillary requirements. It is our firm conviction that if we support our team, they will be motivated to perform hence it is our clarion call to everyone to support us materially and financially,” said Gadzikwa. Gadzikwa also indicated that the Fundraising Launch and Dinner would signify the roll out of the public relations campaign to rally the nation behind the Warriors as they take to the field at the 2019 AFCON finals. The Committee is chaired by acting Minister of Youth, Sport and Culture, Kazembe Kazembe. ZIFA board member Philemon Machana and businessman Kudakwashe Tagwirei are the vice-chairmen. Other members of the committee are Transport and Infrastructure Development Minister Joel Biggie Matiza, Minister of Industry and Commerce Nqobizitha Ndlovu, Emmerson Mnangagwa (Junior), Zimpapers chief executive Pikirayi Deketeke, Sugar Chagonda, Lazarus Muchenje, Devine Ndlukula, Chipo Mtasa and Sports Commission officials.