The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ALL is set for this year’s National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe track and field inter-provincial championships, starting today at the National Sports Stadium B Arena. Athletes from Botswana expected to grace the meet. The competition starts this afternoon and runs until tomorrow. The national association are going to use the championships to start finalising their team for the African Games scheduled for August in Morocco. Competition manager, Manuel Mpofu, said all provinces have confirmed their participation. Some of the local athletes expected to compete include Ngoni Makusha, Tatenda Tsumba, Dickson Kamungeremu and Dickson Kapandura. In the women’s competition, the limelight will be on the likes of Privilege Chikara and long distance runners Patience Murove, Anna Bungu and Rudo Mhonderwa. “All the 10 provinces, plus a team from Botswana and a ZRP team, which is preparing for Regional games, have confirmed their participation. ‘’So, we expect a total of plus or minus 500 athletes. “We are looking forward to a great competition from Ngoni Makusha and Tatenda Tsumba from Harare province. ‘’Dickson Kapandura from Mashonaland Central as well as Sipho Moyo from Bulawayo. “In the women (section) there is Privilege Chikara from Mashonaland Central, Faith Nyathi from Bulawayo province and the Harare trio of Patience Murove, Anna Bungu and Rudo Mhonderwa to shine also. “All is set for this meet. I just want to encourage Harare residents to come and enjoy this meet which has a foreign flavour, as we know Botswana they now dominate the sprints,” said Mpofu. Harare are the defending champions and are confident of retaining the title as their secretary-general Sledge Chinyoka said they are fielding athletes in all events. The national association’s president Tendai Tagara said, with Botswana taking part in the meet, they were looking forward to an exciting competition. “We are hoping for a very good competition at the National Sports Stadium. Botswana have also confirmed their participation, they are sending a 4x400m team. ‘’This means that we have to up our game by fielding a 4x400m relay team and this will help our relay team to push for a better time as part of their preparation for the African Games and the World Championships qualification.’’ The competition has been combined with the JM Busha Triangular Series final leg. The first two events were held in Bulawayo and Mutare. JM Busha have also weighed in to incentivise the inter-provincial championships.