The Herald IRELAND have included Simi Singh and Shane Getkate in their squad for their cricket series against Zimbabwe, where they are slated to play three ODIs and three T20Is. Ireland have made two changes to the side that played in the two-match ODI series against Afghanistan. Seasoned spinner George Dockrell and Barry McCarthy have been left out. Andrew White, Chair of National Men’s Selectors, said: “With the T20 World Cup Qualifier in October this year, it has been important for the selectors to see our senior international and Wolves squads in as many games as possible. The last six months have been busy with 18 ODIs and T20Is played so far.  “The last six months have also allowed selectors and our coaching staff to experiment a little – both with players selected and their roles within the team. Kevin O’’Brien’’s elevation to opening the batting in T20s has been a really positive move, Mark Adair’s late-order power hitting, and Andy McBrine’s role opening the bowling in the ODIs, all ways that Graham Ford and his coaching staff are seeking to push this team forward.”  The ICC World T20 qualifiers will be played in October-November 2019 in the UAE where 14 teams will participate for a place in the World T20 to be held in Australia in 2020.  Greg Thompson, who last represented the Irish T20 team in 2017, has got a call up and has been included in the T20 side. The 31-year old batsman has been on the fringes for a long time having made his ODI debut back in 2008.  “The selectors are also mindful of the balance of the squad and have taken note of current form, and the decision to recall Greg Thompson into the national T20 set-up is recognition of his impressive form. His batting is not just about power hitting, but batting with intelligence. “With the T20 World Cup Qualifier on the horizon, we want to ensure no stone is left unturned in finding a side that will give us the best possible chance of being successful, so we wish Greg well with this opportunity.” Teams Ireland ODI squad: William Porterfield (captain), Mark Adair, Andrew Balbirnie, Shane Getkate, Tyrone Kane, Andrew McBrine, James McCollum, Tim Murtagh, Kevin O’’Brien, Boyd Rankin, Simi Singh, Paul Stirling, Lorcan Tucker, Gary Wilson. T20I squad: Gary Wilson (Captain), Mark Adair, Andrew Balbirnie, Gareth Delany, George Dockrell, Shane Getkate, Tyrone Kane, Josh Little, Kevin O’’Brien, Boyd Rankin, Paul Stirling, Greg Thompson, Lorcan Tucker, Craig Young. THE FIXTURES Wolves 50-over match Ireland Wolves v Zimbabwe Men – Tomorrow (Eglinton) ODI series Ireland Men v Zimbabwe Men – 1 July 2019 (Bready) Ireland Men v Zimbabwe Men – 4 July 2019 (Stormont) Ireland Men v Zimbabwe Men – 7 July 2019 (Stormont)                                                            T20I series Ireland Men v Zimbabwe Men – 10 July 2019 (Stormont) Ireland Men v Zimbabwe Men – 12 July 2019 (Bready) Ireland Men v Zimbabwe Men – 14 July 2019 (Bready) – Cricbuzz/Sports Reporter