The Herald Eddie Chikamhi and Mukudzei Chingwere
THE battle for the bragging rights in the platinum derby will take centre stage at the weekend when defending champions FC Platinum travel to Ngezi Platinum Stars looking to bounce back to winning ways. Hosts coach Erol Akbay said they were eyeing a positive result while FC Platinum gaffer, Norman Mapeza, said he was battling to motivate his players to forget the surprise defeat to Dynamos. “It is a very important game for us against Ngezi, after the disappointment last Saturday, we have been telling everybody, that it is part of the game,’’ said Mapeza. “We are going to Ngezi, a team which is very high on confidence after winning their away game in Bulawayo. “We know the challenges we are going to face on Saturday but, at the end of the day, it is a game where we need to redeem ourselves and we just need to be at our best to get a result.’’ Former Ngezi vice-captain Godknows Murwira has received little game time at the champions this season and is unlikely to take part against his former paymasters. “Godknows is not here, we just heard that his nephew is not feeling well, but I have not yet spoken to him so, I really do not know what is happening,” said Mapeza. Akbay said last week’s victory over Bulawayo Chiefs rejuvenated his side after they had gone three games without winning. “We are now in the top eight of the log standings but, of course, that’s not where we belong. But, if you are not winning matches, you stay where we are,’’ said Akbay. “It’s very important to win the match, for me not because they are FC Platinum, but it’s important for us to start working our way back to the top. “In these kind of games, as a coach, you don’t necessarily need to do anything special to the players. “They are already motivated by themselves and, probably, what is important to you as a coach is how you manage the first eleven and how you manage the game till 90 minutes. “The rest is upon the boys and they are already motivated for this game and I think it will be a very good game.’’ This weekend’s matches come after the Premier Soccer League announced they have officially hiked their gate charges from $5 to $10 for the cheapest ticket. The move by PSL is meant to cushion clubs from the harsh economic climate which has made it expensive to fulfil fixtures. PSL spokesperson Kudzai Bare yesterday said the new charges are with immediate effect. “This serves to advise that gate charges for Premier Soccer League matches have been reviewed with immediate effect. “The new gate charges are as follows: Rest of Ground: RTGS$10, VIP: RTGS$20, VVIP: RTGS$50. “Clubs that wish to maintain the old prices are advised to inform the PSL by Friday, 7 June 2019 to enable proper allocation of match tickets,” wrote the PSL to clubs.  Fixtures Tomorrow Herentals v CAPS United (NSS) Chicken Inn v Harare City (Luveve) ZPC Kariba v Chapungu (Nyamhunga) Yadah v Highlanders (Rufaro) Ngezi Platinum v FC Platinum (Baobab) Sunday Hwange v Triangle (Colliery) Mushowani Stars v Bulawayo Chiefs (NSS) Tel One v Black Rhinos (Luveve) Dynamos v Manica Diamonds (Rufaro)