The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
ZIMBABWE’S junior motocross champion rider Emmanuel Bako showed that his nerves are made of steel when he made a miraculous recovery from a hand injury to win the 85cc Class during yesterday’s round three of the Bogwheelers Club’s Club Championship series at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare. Bako (12) flew into Harare yesterday morning from South Africa where he had competed in another club event at Dirt Bronco in Krugersdorp on Saturday and unfortunately he injured his left arm after falling during the first lap of Heat One of the 85cc Class. He was rushed to hospital but luckily the X-ray showed that he suffered no fracture to his arm and this allowed him to fly back to Harare yesterday morning to take part in the Bogwheelers Club’s Club Championship event where he produced a virtuoso performance to sweep the board in the 85cc Class. Second place in the 85cc Class went to Jamie Doran while Dillan Faasen settled for third place. Bako, a Grade Seven pupil at Heritage School in Harare, yesterday took full advantage of the absence of his injured arch-rival Daiyaan Manuel to sweep to victory in the 85cc Class. Manuel (13) missed yesterday race meeting as he is still recovering from an elbow injury he sustained during round three of the 2019 South African National Championship series at BORC in Bloemfontein on May 25. Yesterday also saw the Chicken Hut-sponsored Bako taking part in the 125cc Class where he claimed another place on the podium by coming second behind Tristan Grainger. And the talented young rider could not hide his excitement after his brilliant performances in both the 85cc and 125cc classes yesterday. “God is great . . . When I fell and injured my arm during Saturday’s race meeting at Dirt Bronco, I thought I could not make it for today’s (yesterday’s) event at Donnybrook. But I was given an all clear by the doctor in South Africa on Saturday afternoon and this allowed me to immediately return home to compete in today’s Club Championship at Donnybrook. “Although it was a little bit chilly today, I managed to handle both my 85cc and 125cc machines well and I didn’t face any problems, especially in the 85cc Class where I shot in front from the word go in Heat One and chalked up another victory with ease,” Bako said after yesterday’s race meeting at Donnybrook. His father and manager, Brighton “Bucks” Bako, was equally excited about his son’s performance yesterday. “What can I say? This was awesome . . . Emmanuel had a great race as he arrived at the track today from South Africa just in time for the first heat. God is great because Emmanuel escaped Saturday’s mishap at Dirt Bronco without any serious injuries and this allowed him to come first in the 85cc Class in Zimbabwe and second overall in the 125cc Class. “Emmanuel has proved to be a strong international rider by taking part in two races in South Africa and Zimbabwe inside two days and getting himself a place on the podium in both classes is just fantastic,” Brighton Bako said. Next up for Emmanuel Bako is next weekend’s National Championship series event at Donnybrook.