The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
THE Warriors’ strength in depth is likely to be tested this evening when they take on Zambia in semi-finals of the COSAFA Cup at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban tonight. The match starts at 7.30pm. The national team’s coaches are likely to send in some of the players who do not regularly play for the Warriors, although skipper Knowledge Musona could start. He was introduced as a second half substitute in the first match, a 2-0 win over the Comoros, in the quarter-finals. Warriors team manager Wellington Mpandare said a number of players who started the first match were likely to be rested. “The coaches will look at those who played and make some changes. There will be changes,’’ he said. “Those who never featured will have a chance to play and the likes of Teenage Hadebe, Marvelous Nakamba and Marshal Munetsi were not in the first team and will need game time.’’ Vice captain Ovidy Karuru believes the Zambians could be inspired by the need to revenge for last year’s dramatic loss in the final to the Warriors. Tino Kadewere scored a late equaliser, with the last kick of the match, to force the game into extra-time last year. Khama Billiat then converted a penalty and scored another goal to secure a 4-2 victory. “Whenever we face Zambia, it is never an easy game,’’ said Karuru. “They brought mostly local players, who are not regulars in the national team, but playing against Zambia is always a tough one,’’ said Karuru. “We are ready for whatever they bring against us and we are ready because it is a final before a final. “For them it is about revenge. We beat them in the 2017 and 2018 finals and they would want to revenge.’’ Assistant coach Rahman Gumbo will take charge of the team because of the unavailability of his boss Sunday Chidzambwa who is attending to a family bereavement following the death of his father Ezekiel. “We are approaching the match with a very serious attitude and no complacency at all. The preparations have been going on very well,’’ said Karuru. “I am sure the guys will deliver when we face Zambia tomorrow (today). “After winning our first game, we always want to do more. Whenever you win, you want to do better than the previous game and the fact that we are facing Zambia in the tournament in the semis means the guys would be more focussed. “They know what Zambia can do, they have won COSAFA four times, I am sure we will probably win the Cup again.’’