The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
TYNE Turnock and Polite Mubure are the 2019 Zimbabwe Open squash champions after they walked away with the men’s and women’s titles respectively at Suburbs Squash Club in Bulawayo on Saturday. Turnock (18) of Hellenic School in Harare was on Saturday walking on cloud nine after he beat Ken Mwape of Zambia 3-0 in the men’s final to emerge as the top dog at this year’s tournament which attracted some of the top male and female squash players from Zimbabwe and Zambia.  On Saturday, the day certainly belonged to Turnock who was emulated by 16-year-old Mubure of Harare who edged Bulawayo’s Michelle Williams 3-2 in the women’s final. Mubure is sister to one of the country’s finest male squash players Ishmael Mubure who is now playing in the professional ranks in the Netherlands. Polite has now won a number of titles locally and she is just a joy to watch when on song in the squash court’s rectangular box. In the men’s 3rd place play-off, Innocent Mukumba (21), son to one of the country’s top squash coaches Mashumba Mukumba, beat his arch-rival Tafadzwa Mushunje 3-0 to walk away with the bronze medal. Both players are members of Belgravia Sports Club in Harare. On Saturday, Mushunje was itching for revenge after he was beaten by Innocent Mukumba 0-3 in the final of the Belgravia Sports Club Championships in May but that was not to be as he was once again outwitted by the latter in another exciting match. In the Veterans final, Mike Burns outsmarted Trust Siziba 3-0 before he combined forces with Neil Nesbitt in the men’s doubles final where they beat Mwape and Strydom 3-0. Speaking after Saturday’s finals at Suburbs Squash Club, one of the tournament’s organisers, Mashumba Mukumba, said the standards were once again high at this year’s event and the fans were treated to some exciting and tight squash matches in both the men’s and women’s sections. “The turnout was also good . . . I would say it was 50-50 for both men and women as there were some players who came from Zambia but the tournament couldn’t attract players from South Africa and Botswana because we didn’t have enough money to host them. “But at the end of the day, I think the players who took part in this year’s event really enjoyed themselves and they all promised to be back for next year’s tournament. . . It’s getting better and better after each year. “We are still up and running as an association. Tournaments are being held successfully and big thanks to the organisers and to the deputy president of Squash Federation of Africa (SFA) and chairman of Squash Rackets Association of Zimbabwe, Lucky Mlilo. Congratulations guys,” Mashumba Mukumba said.