The Herald Rebecca Kabaya Arts Reporter
After successfully conquering South Africa, rising mbira musician Bothwell Chakanetsa has returned home to court local fans. The musician, who recently released his debut album “Kuperekedza Vanemani Kurarama”, has engaged severalstakeholders in the local music industry in a bid to boost his fan base. In an interview with The Herald, Chakanetsa said he had steadily built a fan base in South Africa over the years. “Over the years my music has become greatly appreciated in South Africa, not only by Zimbabweans living there, but also South Africans and many other nationalities in that country,” he revealed. “I’ve been staging many live shows that side, but I feel I also have to capture a home support if my career is to succeed, hence, the return home to spearhead the campaign.” The dreadlocked musician said he was talking to promoters and venue owners for live performances. “Since my return to the country I’ve been pushing my music on radio and other media platforms. “I’ve also been engaging venue owners and promoters for shows. If all goes well I will soon hold my first live show since my return,” he said. Inspired by Farai Macheka and Bryn Taurai Mteki, Chakanetsa has mastered the art of mixing traditional music with modern instrumentation. “I learnt how to play mbira from a legend, Cephas Jangiya, but Tawanda Munetsi, a member of Mashayamombe Mbira Group, taught me how to play all the other traditional instruments and how to mix them with modern instruments so as to spice up my music, hence, coming up with electrified melodies,” he said. Chakanetsa said traditional music was greatly appreciated, but under-marketed. “Though there is a large number of people who appreciate traditional music, musicians have fallen short in marketing themselves in a highly competitive music industry. This has resulted in less and less platforms that play traditional music,” he pointed out. Chakanetsa’s 11-track debut album, which carries songs such as “Kuperekedza Vanemari”, “Hunhoforo”, “Rudo Inyasha” and “Masango”, among others, has been receiving decent airplay on local radio stations.