The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS coach Tonderai Ndiraya believes a couple of positive results could help his team bulldoze their way into the Castle Lager Premiership football title race. But the coach, who has made a huge difference at his boyhood club, says the Glamour Boys need to improve their consistency. Despite being unbeaten in their last nine matches, Dynamos have dropped 11 points after drawing five of those games. “If you want to compete at the top, you need to be consistent. I think, before we won the Herentals game, we had drawn the previous two matches,’’ said Ndiraya. “So, we have to pick a series of wins, which has not been happening and I think that has been a setback for us. We need to improve. Once we get that consistency, we can then start talking of something else, but for now, frankly, we are not yet there as there are still a lot of grey areas we need to work on, like concentration. “Of course, we are five points behind the leaders, but you don’t want to talk of the championship without having rectified your shortcomings. “At the moment I don’t think we are in the right frame to start talking of the championship. Statistically, we are there, but performance-wise, we aren’t.”
The Glamour Boys face TelOne at Rufaro this afternoon. TelOne are under new coach Rahman Gumbo and are walking with a spring in their step following their commanding 4-1 victory over Yadah on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Dynamos have raised gate charges to $15 from $10 for the cheapest ticket. Log leaders CAPS United travel to Luveve for a date against log anchors Bulawayo Chiefs, while Ngezi play Herentals at Baobab. FC Platinum and Chicken Inn clash in a potential thriller at Mandava, with Highlanders facing Mushowani at Babourfields tomorrow. Fixtures
Castle Lager Premiership
Today
Bulawayo Chiefs v CAPS United (Luveve)
FC Platinum v Chicken Inn (Mandava)
Dynamos v TelOne (Rufaro)
Ngezi Platinum v Herentals (Baobab) Tomorrow
Chapungu v Triangle (Ascot)
Manica Diamonds v Hwange (Vengere)
Highlanders v Mushowani (B/F)
Black Rhinos v Harare City (Rufaro) Monday
Yadah v ZPC Kariba (Rufaro) English Premiership 
(Kick-off 4pm unless stated)
Today: Southampton v Manchester United (1:30pm), West Ham v Norwich, Leicester v Bournemouth, Manchester City v Brighton, Newcastle v Watford, Chelsea v Sheffield United, Crystal Palace v Aston Villa, Burnley v Liverpool (6:30pm) Tomorrow: Everton v Wolves (3pm), Arsenal v Tottenham (5:30pm) Spanish La Liga
Today: Osasuna v Barcelona (5pm); Levante v Real Valladolid (7pm); Getafe v Deportivo Alavés (7pm); Real Betis v Leganés (9pm).
Tomorrow: Valencia v Mallorca (5pm); Espanyol v Granada (7pm); Atlético Madrid v Eibar (7pm); Villarreal v Real Madrid (9pm) Italian Serie A
Today: Milan v Brescia (6pm); Juventus v Napoli (8:45pm).
Tomorrow: Lazio v Roma (6pm); Udinese v Parma (8:45pm); Lecce v Hellas Verona (8:45pm); Cagliari v Internazionale (8:45pm); Sassuolo v Sampdoria (8:45pm); Genoa v Fiorentina (8:45pm).