The Herald Danai Chirawu
Division D of the Criminal Code, which is the law that regulates penalties for crimes in Zimbabwe, pertains to transmitting HIV deliberately or in the course of committing sexual crimes. Section 79 in particular refers to deliberate transmission of HIV and to be found guilty of the crime the following factors are considered; According to this law, a person does not necessarily have to have been infected with HIV by the accused person but simply that the accused engaged in conduct that could risk the transmission of the virus is enough to warrant a conviction. Once found guilty, a person can be imprisoned for a maximum of 20 years. Married couples are not exempt from this law and therefore it is not a defence to state that the sexual activity was done during the exercise of conjugal rights. Section 53 of the draft Marriages Bill proposes that this law be removed and various circumstances were taken into account before reaching this decision. Before making any conclusions about the Parliament’s decision for the proposal to decriminalise HIV transmission, a simple summary of what HIV entails may be necessary; Why was HIV transmission criminalised? The law which criminalises deliberate transmission of HIV was created in the late 90s and enacted in the early 2000s in Zimbabwe at the peak of the HIV and Aids pandemic which plagued the country and the continent at large. The intention of this law was therefore to stop or prevent the transmission and spread of this virus which was considered a death sentence for many. It became a matter of public interest to criminalise the transmission of HIV as it was a threat to human life. It has been argued; that criminalising deliberate transmission from the point of view of “disease prevention” which was the stance taken by the State and Government to combat HIV transmission, is flawed. It creates a false sense of security and the lack of need to protect one’s own health. It relegates the obligation to be responsible for one’s health to another person. Why should we decriminalise deliberate transmission of HIV? The law should therefore be rooted in scientific evidence to facilitate justice delivery. As it stands, the law does not reflect that. It has been established that improving the health care system, access to antiretroviral treatment, offering psychosocial support and awareness raising are better and more effective and non-discriminatory tools in preventing the spread of HIV.  For feedback, questions and comments:  zwla@zwla.co.zw .  Look out for the next article in this column next week and the Kwayedza every Thursday. For a 24 hour response to Gender Based Violence issues, call our toll free number 08080131: hotlines 0776736873/0782900900 