The Herald Tendai Rupapa Senior Reporter
First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa yesterday visited Hupenyu Hutsva Children’s Home in Harare and interacted with children before donating an assortment of foodstuffs. Four of the children at the home were recently removed from the streets by Amai Mnangagwa through her organisation, Angel of Hope Foundation, and are blending well with others. Amai Mnangagwa urged the children to treasure school as it was the pathway to success. The First Lady recently interacted with children living on the streets, who pleaded with her to help them access basic needs, especially shelter. She pledged to assist, saying the vulnerable group could be helped through equipping them with necessary skills, provision of food and decent housing. The First Lady then took some of the children to different homes, including Hupenyu Hutsva. “I have come to interact and socialise with you as your mother and grandmother,” she said. “You should be serious with your school work to achieve more in life as you are the leaders of tomorrow. “I am happy with the behaviour being exhibited by my children who left the streets recently and I wish them well in their endeavours. I also want to thank the caregivers here because they always make sure that the children are well-fed and clothed.” Social Welfare Harare provincial head Mrs Susan Ngani, who accompanied the First Lady to Hupenyu Hutsva, thanked her for her love and kindness. “I want to applaud the work our First Lady is doing through her charity organisation, Angel of Hope Foundation,” she said. “She has been helping a lot of people countrywide, especially the vulnerable children. The First Lady is indeed an Angel of Hope. “This is not her first visit, she has been here before and to several other homes across the country’s provinces, interacting with the children there and donating assortments of foodstuffs and non-food items. “The four boys Amai brought here from the streets have settled in well and they are now going to school. “I want to thank the First Lady for giving hope to the children living on the streets.” Hupenyu Hutsva superintendent Mr Michael Mukwaiwa thanked the First Lady for the visit and the donation, describing her as a true mother who loves all her children. The four boys aged between 15 and 17 gave testimonies on how the First Lady transformed their lives. Hupenyu Hutsva houses 178 children. Amai Mnangagwa identified Chambuta Children’s Home in Chiredzi as one of the places where some of the street children will be placed. She recently toured the home to assess the areas that need attention and its potential to be turned into a rehabilitation centre.