The Herald Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter The President was yesterday conferred with an honorary Doctor of Philosophy degree in Defence and Security Studies during the inaugural graduation ceremony of the Zimbabwe National Defence University (ZNDU). In his citation for the conferment, the university’s Vice Chancellor, Air Vice Marshal Michael Moyo, said President Mnangagwa had dedicated his life to the nation and people of Zimbabwe. “His Excellency, the President of Zimbabwe and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces and Chancellor of the ZNDU, Cde Mnangagwa, has lived an illustrious life of contribution, dedication and service to the nation and people of Zimbabwe spanning over 50 years. He said the President had distinguished himself in Government in the various ministerial positions he held and was instrumental in the establishment of ZNDU. “During his tenure as Minister of Defence, he oversaw the establishment and construction of the ZNDU which is now a fully-fledged university. He was also instrumental in securing a donation of domestic and office furniture, computer equipment, a simulator, seven buses, an ambulance and solar equipment worth US$7,5 million for the National Defence College (before it became ZNDU),” he said. “One of his most notable contributions to the ZNDU was his support for the institution in Cabinet and in Parliament when there were attempts to derail the transformation of the NDC to a fully-fledged university. Above all, he espouses liberation ethos which are imbued with a deep knowledge, strategic thinking and upholding Zimbabwe’s liberation values which we all take pride in. As a university, we aspire to project such values in our syllabi,” Air Vice Marshal Moyo said. In his acceptance speech, President Mnangagwa expressed his gratitude saying it was reflective of the sacrifices made by the country’s heroes. “It is humbling and important to note that this award is a symbolic gesture, reflecting the ultimate sacrifice made by compatriots both fallen and living, to liberate us from colonial bondage. This conferment comes a few days before we commemorate and remember their immense sacrifices, courage and dedication. “Let me remind all of us that building and developing a new Zimbabwe requires people who are loyal, patriotic, reliable and committed to defend and safeguard the gains of our independence. These are qualities which must remain deeply embedded in those who pass through all our institutions of higher learning,” President Mnangagwa said. He called on the security sector to remain vigilant and safeguard the country’s stability. “As the security sector, I urge you to remain resourceful and vigilant towards enhancing and guarding against contemporary threats to our defence and security. In this regard, economic stability, moral decadence and social instability are among the factors that can threaten our national security. “My Government will continue to fight corruption, combat civil and cybercrimes, among other ills that may derail our economic prosperity as a nation,” he said. The President called on the ZNDU to deliver education that is in line with the national vision. “As the nation’s leading Defence and Security University you must deliver higher and tertiary education in line with global standards, our national vision and aspirations. “An educated and enlightened citizenry is paramount for a healthy nation. It is when we have the capacity to provide homegrown solutions to our own challenges that we become self-reliant and independent from manipulation. I am confident that you will respond to the demands for economic and social freedom with zeal,” President Mnangagwa said.