The Herald Tobias Mandoreba in Hwange
Hwange ……………. (0)2 Dynamos…………….(0)2 HOOLIGANISM once again reared its ugly head in this football contest between Chipangano and DeMbare at the Colliery yesterday leading to a lengthy 21-minute stoppage in the last half. All hell broke loose in the 55 minute with Hwange leading 1-0 thanks to own goal by defender Godfrey Mukambi. An overzealous Dynamos fan caught the policemen napping when he scaled the security fence and sprinted across the field of play past the Hwange goal area where he sprinkled an unidentified liquid substance from a plastic bottle. The event led to some skirmishes in the terraces with the situation later degenerating into chaos as missiles rained in all directions leaving the match referee Prince Mathumo with no option but to stop the match as the safety of the players was now compromised. Play only resumed after 21 minutes after riot police were deployed around the stadium. Match commissioner Dennis Tshuma gave his comments on the fracas. “The safety of the players was now hugely compromised and play had to be stopped. We will prepare the necessary reports for the authorities to act upon,” he said. Away from the unfortunate events, which left a number of fans injured, it was Hwange who took the lead five minutes from the breather through an own goal by Mukambi. An intended clearance by goalkeeper Munyaradzi Diya richocheted off his knee into the back of the nets. DeMbare levelled matters nine minutes from time through a cheeky free kick by Godknows Murwira which eluded the wall and left goalkeeper Collen Phiri clutching thin air. On the stoke of the end of regulation time, Hwange surged ahead for the second time through a glancing Shepherd Gadzikwa header. Eleven minutes into the 21 minutes of stoppage time DeMbare drew level through Evans Katema. Hwange coach Nation Dube blamed the stoppage. “The stoppage, which came soon after the break, disturbed us as we attempted to go a gear up after the opener. “On the other hand we let in soft goals,” he said. DeMbare coach Tonderayi Ndiraya was happy to pick up a point. “Hwange is always a difficult place to come and get a result and I pay tribute to the boys for the fighting spirit. “To come back from behind twice is commendable. Tribute to the young match referee for the firm grip on the game,” said Ndiraya.  Teams Hwange: C. Phiri, G. Ndlovu, F. Chindungwe, N. Chinyerere, L. Sibanda, A. Chuma, S. Gadzikwa, T. Ncube, E. Gwitima, K. Chimbadzwa ( L. Vundla 80th min), N. Gama(E. Nkhulungo 90th min). Dynamos: M. Diya, E. Jalai, T. Muringai(C. Ngahani 90th min), G. Mukambi, M. Mawadza, A. Maliselo, G. Murwira, K. Dhemere( J. Selemani 56th min), N. Mangala, E. Katema, N. Katawa.