The Herald Oscar Rusenga in TRIANGLE
TRIANGLE United arrived in Bujumbura, Burundi, yesterday for the return leg of their preliminary round of the CAF Confederation Cup against Rukinzo. The team left Harare yesterday on a chartered Halstead Aviation plane and stopped in Zambia for refuelling before safely landing in Bujumbura. They have a commanding 5-0 lead in the match and high in confidence after beating Ngezi Platinum and FC Platinum in successive league matches. Triangle have managed to keep clean sheets in their last three games. New signing Allen Tavarwisa, who has settled well, will lead the attack alongside Collins Dhuwa and Timothy January. Donald Dzvinyai, Kudzai Chigwida, Russel Madamombe, Obey Mwerahari and Praise Tonha also form the core of the squad. Triangle coach, Taurai Mangwiro, was confident his charges will progress to the next round. “There is never an easy game in football. Every game is a new game and must be treated with respect,’’ he said. “Our second game against Rukinzo will be different from the first one which we prepared without knowing our opponents. “We had a look at them when we played them in Bulawayo and now we know the threat they can pose. “I am not sure if it’s going to be a high-scoring match but we are confident of a result. “There is no better motivation for the boys than the feeling of representing the country and our club well in Africa.’’ Triangle vice-captain and first-choice goalkeeper, Ronald Mudimu, was happy expects his team to clear the hurdle. “As players we always train hard and work hard to do well for the team, it’s a team sport and every member of the squad is equally important because we all fight for the same cause, winning. “It’s obviously going to be a different environment for most of our squad members but football is played on the pitch and if we apply the tactics given to us by our technical team, we stand a very good chance of coming out tops,’’ he said. The winner will take on either Azam of Tanzania or Fasil Kenema of Ethiopia in the first round.