The Herald Tobias Mandoreba in HWANGE
Hwange . . . . . .  .. . . . . (0)1 FC Platinum . . . . . . . . .(1)1 HWANGE FC are firmly establishing themselves as draw specialists in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer league race. Their showdown with fellow miners FC Platinum yesterday ended with a share of spoils at the Colliery Stadium. The coalminers have now drawn four games on the trot against Yadah FC (0-0 away), Dynamos (2-2 home), Ngezi Platinum (1-1 away) before yesterday’s home draw. The fiercely-contested match yesterday had some emotions boiling over from the FC Platinum bench as they felt hard done after a Gift Mbweti effort was disallowed five minutes from time. Second assistant referee, Michael Zulu , adjudged that the lanky player had used his hand to push the ball into the nets in a goalmouth melee. Referee Mhaka Magare concurred with his assistant and ruled out the goal much to the disappointment of the FC Platinum bench who protested through their head coach Norman Mapeza and captain Petros Mhari. Mbweti’s woes were further compounded as he was shown a second yellow card for the offence leaving FC Platinum to finish the match one man short. Away from the drama FC Platinum grabbed the lead in the second minute through their live-wire Perfect Chikwende who connected a teasing Raphael Muduwia cross into the back of the nets from inside the box. FC Platinum then pressed for a second but were left to thank the agility of goalkeeper Mhari who summoned all his reflexes to deny big striker Kasimero Chimbadzwa from a one-on-one situation in the 26th minute. Ten minutes from the breather the visitors fluffed a golden opportunity to increase their lead after Devon Chafa headed wide while unmarked inside the box with goalkeeper Taimon Mvula to beat. Five minutes after half-time Chipangano were on level pegging after striker Ernest Gwitima sent Mhari the wrong way from the penalty spot. This was after Rainsome Pavari had brought down Chimbadzwa as he went for the kill inside the penalty box. It then became a balanced affair until the late drama that threatened to spoil what was otherwise a good match of football were both teams showed the zeal to garner maximum points. Nation Dube was happy with the point. “I am happy for my boys who fought hard to get a point against a team like FC Platinum. “We are also travelling a lot and fatigue setting in.” said Dube. Mapeza was fuming after the match as he blamed the appointment of local match officials for the two dropped points. Teams Hwange: T Mvula; L Sibanda; N Chinyerere; G Ndlovu; A Banda; A Chuma; E Gwitima; T Ncube; L Vundla(D Maphosa 78th min); S Gadzikwa; K Chimbadzwa FC Platinum: P Mhari; R Muduviwa; G Bello; K Madzongwe; W Stima; R Pavari; D Chafa (H Magaya 68th min); N Tigere; G Mbweti; T Chikore; P Chikwende.