The Herald Tendai Rupapa Senior Reporter The church continues to play a pivotal role in the assistance of Cyclone Idai victims after various denominations partnered Angel of Hope Foundation in mobilising a second consignment of goods that were handed over to Government yesterday. Angel of Hope Foundation was founded by First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa as her philanthropic arm. The consignment donated by the churches comprised foodstuffs, clothes, blankets, sanitary wear, kitchen utensils and toiletries. The goods were handed over to the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing for onward transmission to the victims. The handover ceremony was punctuated by song and dance, as various denominations showered the First Lady with praises for mobilising assistance for the victims. The First Lady said the efforts by the multitudes of women from various churches countrywide were in direct support of the call for national unity for a worthy cause. This is the second consignment of goods that has been mobilised by the churches and Amai Mnangagwa, through Angel of Hope Foundation, for the benefit of people who were affected by Cyclone Idai, mainly in Chimanimani and Chipinge districts of Manicaland. The First Lady was touched by heart-rending reports of survivors who were left without essentials for everyday use, such as plates and pots. She initiated the “Poto neNdiro” (pots and plates) campaign and pleaded with churches to mobilise kitchen utensils, among other things. The initial consignment was handed over on June 14 in Chimanimani. The church groups pledged to continue working with Angel of Hope Foundation in mobilising more assistance for the survivors and yesterday the women, including pastors, bishops and overseers gathered in Harare for the ceremony. The First Lady expressed gratitude for the consignment. She said livelihood was one of the four pillars of her foundation’s programmes. “We are gathered here for a worthy cause, showing love, care and concern for our brothers and sisters in Chimanimani and Chipinge who are victims of Cyclone Idai,” said Amai Mnangagwa. “I am inspired by your efforts that are a testimony of being one big family with diversity, as evidenced by the different denominations. Your efforts directly support the call for national unity. “As the founder and patron of Angel of Hope Foundation, I have been to the affected areas several times being part of my duty to extend support to those in need. “Livelihood is one of the four pillars of programmes of Angel of Hope Foundation. The other three are health, social protection and women empowerment.” The First Lady said she was pleased with the way the women vowed to continue supporting her initiatives. “I am humbled that the women continue to show their trust and support in Angel of Hope Foundation as their first choice vehicle of channelling the support to the victims of Cyclone Idai,” she said. “These are remarkable efforts of going out of your way to help others so that they gain self-esteem. Once they become self-reliant, Government and development partners can then focus on the bigger developmental issues.” The First Lady applauded Government, UN agencies, non-governmental organisations, civil society and individuals for responding to the Cyclone Idai disaster. Minister of State for Harare province Oliver Chidawu said the donations will go a long way in assisting those who were affected by Cyclone Idai. One of the organisers, Reverend Dr Lucky Mutanga, pledged continued support towards Amai Mnangagwa’s humanitarian projects and programmes.