The Herald Senior Arts Reporter
Zimbabwe celebrates Heroes Day and Defence Forces’ Day on Monday and Tuesday, respectively, with a number of events lined up to commemorate the lives of  fallen gallant sons and daughters of the soil. Starting tonight, people will be at various joints across the country as they take on the ‘long weekend’. Pop Up –Nyanga Carnival It is all partying as people from all walks of life gather at Claremont Golf Club in Nyanga for the two-day ‘Pop Up Carnival’ to be hosted by wheel-spinners Rob Macson, Jono Mariani, Holt, Raydizz, Bhana, Chucknosis, Iroq, C Skillz, Langton B, Andile Browns and Selekta Base among others. Madirirano Takashinga Cricket grounds is the place to be on Sunday as the high heeled and the ghetto fellas mix and mingle at Madirirano fest. The event goers are set to fork out ZWL$10 entrance fee with those preferring the VIP stand paying ZWL$80 and ZWL $150 VVIP. This time around Simbarashe ‘Bodyslam’ Chakare has called Zimdancehall musicians Seh Calaz, Killer T, Enzo Ishall, Blot, Bazooka and hip-hop sensation T-Gonzi. DJ Bashmouth from South Africa is expected to be on the turn-tables with Garry B, Templeman and Cassie from the United Arab Emirates. Chibuku ignites Kadoma All roads will lead to Rimuka Stadium in Kadoma for the Chibuku Neshamwari Dance competition where various dance groups drawn from the country’s ten provinces will battle for honours at the annual event. Sungura ace Alick Macheso and his Orchestra Mberikwazvo will be the guest entertainers at the event. Entrance is free. Before playing at Rimuka, Macheso will tonight play at Club Las Vegas in Southerton, Harare. He will travel to Bindura on Sunday for a show at Tendayi Hall. On Monday, Macheso will then travel to Gutu for a date with his fans at Mapondera Nite Club before travelling back to Harare where will perform at the Defence Forces’ Day at the National Sports Stadium. Chimbetu commemoration in Fio It is 14 years after Dendera musician Simon Chimbetu died. Tomorrow, the Chimbetus — Sulumani and Allan — will host a commemoration gig dubbed “Ndarangarira Gamba”  at Mushandirapamwe Hotel. They will be supported by Obert Chari of the “Mebo” fame. Simon Mutamba remembers heroes Consistent sungura musician Simon Mutambi will tomorrow play at Makuruwani Bar at White House before he travels to Glendale for another show at Club 007 in Glendale on Sunday. On Monday Mutambi will be in Banket where he stages a Heroes Day Plash gig at Kuwadzana Beerhall. Dhewa rocks CBD Utakataka Express will tonight starts its weekend with a show at 7 Million Club in Mhangura before he return to the capital for a show at City Sports Bar tomorrow. On Sunday the Peter Moyo led band will join Baba Harare for a family show at Charehwa Matombo Bar in Budiriro. Peter Moyo will the share the stage with Tatenda Pinjisi at Barcelona Tafadzwa Bar and Shop in Mvurwi on Monday. Zhakata heads to Mutare Leonard Zhakata will tonight perform at Eddi’s Kite Bar in Chegutu. Tomorrow he is at Little England Nite Club in Mbare before he will travel to Mutare for a show at Club Mandisa in Mutare. Tonight the same venue hosts Wasu and the Syndicate Girls.