The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
ONE of Zimbabwe’s top junior motocross riders Emile Croisette made his presence felt at the 2019 Walton Transcan Grand National Championship in Ontario, Canada, at the weekend where he finished fifth overall in the 65cc (7-9) Class. Taking part in his first major international event outside Zimbabwe and riding against some of the world’s top junior riders, Croisette showed no ghost of inferiority complex as handled his machine with aplomb in the 65cc (7-9) Class to be placed among the top five in a field of more than 15 bikers. Croisette also took part in the 65cc GP (master kids) Class during the same four-day championship which ran from August 13 to 16 at Walton and he came 10th overall to crown a memorable outing for himself at one of the world’s top amateur motocross racing events. And the promising young Zimbabwean rider could not hide his excitement after his memorable outing at this year’s Walton Transcan Grand National Championship in Ontario. “I’m now done at Walton Grand National. I’m exhausted. It was a long week . . . Very intense with lots of things changing every hour from the weather to ruts. “I needed to adapt my riding for every single race and I did six races plus two practices and six hot laps. It was the most difficult thing I did in my life. “I worked hard but it went well for me, I finished in fifth position in my class (65cc 7-9) and in 10th position in the 65cc GP (master kids). “I was born in Africa and today to be in top five (in the 65cc 7-9 Class) and top 10 best riders (in the 65cc GP) in Canada makes me happy. Thanks to my mom and dad, Davin (of MotoMech), MotoPark, all my friends from MP, Fuchs Silkolene, Shannon Niday and Phil Nicolletti for their advices,” Croisette wrote on his Facebook wall at the weekend. In fact, this was a phenomenal achievement by the Zimbabwean lad who was competing in this tough four-day international event for the first time in his promising career. The Walton Transcan Grand National Championship is an annual event which is held in August.