The Herald Talent Gore Arts Correspondent
Another month has lapsed and many people have been paid. With buying power, merrymakers should this weekend find their way to different events happening in various parts of the country. Outdoor Movie Night The National Art Gallery will tonight host the third edition of the Outdoor Movie Night being hosted by Enthuse Africa in conjunction with First Fridays Zimbabwe. Yesteryear local movies are set to be screened starting at 6pm. Miss Kwekwe roars to life Hip Hop singer Stunner is tomorrow expected to lead events at the Miss Kwekwe 2019 finals to be held at Golden Mile Hotel where Bev, Shinsoman and Jah Master will also perform. Stunner will tonight prepare for the pageant with a show at Club 9 in Victoria Falls where he shares the stage with Zimdancehall chanters Jerrymun and Master H. Maiden Bar Opens Jah Payzah will tomorrow share the stage with Alexio Kawara, and Shinsoman when they officially open the Maiden Bar at Takashinga grounds in Highfield. The event has been dubbed Official Summer Bash. DJ Iroq will be on the decks. Seh Calaz Birthday Bash Boss Yalah will celebrate his birthday with a gig at Mbare Netball Complex where he doubles with the official launch of his newly opened Yalah Nation Studio. Other dancehall singers like Killer T, Freeman, Blot, Jah Signal, Silent Killer, Blot, Jah Master, Ras Pompy are set to perform at the bash. The Cook-OutZW On Sunday people will wind up their weekend with the monthly “Cook-Out” at Palm Estates in Greystone Park, Harare. There will be DJs on rotation, food and beverages on sell. Zhakata samples new album The Zim All Stars leader will tonight sample songs from his forthcoming album when he plays at East Point, formerly Jazz 105 in Harare. Tomorrow, Zhakata will perform at Mutangaz in Ruwa where he will be supported by Mbada Express. Mutambi celebrates new album Simon Mutambi and Cobra Kings will tonight celebrate the successful launch of his latest album “Hazvipere Mushe” with a show at Chakanyuka Night Club in Concession. Tomorrow he travels to Karoi for a show at Chikangwe Tavern. Tryson plays in Fio The Marxist Brothers leader will tonight play at Club Joy Centre in Highfield before the same joint hosts The Police Band tomorrow. Hebert Jack and Jerera Sounds will entertain revellers on Sunday. Macheso, Sulu travel to Mutare Alick Macheso and Sulumani Chimbetu tonight travel to Mutare for a show at Platnum Leisure Centre.