The Herald Innocent Kurira in Bulawayo
Highlanders …………0 Harare City ………. (1) 1 LLYOD Chitembwe completed a league double over Mandla Mpofu in the space of seven days as his new outfit Harare City pipped Highlanders in a Castle Lager Premiership football match at Barbourfields yesterday. Chitembwe masterminded Bosso’s 1-2 loss to CAPS United last weekend before dumping Makepekepe for the Sunshine Boys 24 hours later. His first assignment at Harare City saw him inflicting more pain on Bosso to end the Harare municipal side’s four-game win-less streak. Jerry Chipangura scored the solitary goal for Harare City against the run of play in the 20th minute after Bosso left-back Mbongeni Ndlovu left William Manondo unattended, exposing centre-back Tendai Ndlovu, who was beaten for pace before the ball was crossed to Chipangura for an easy tap-in. The hosts enjoyed early dominance but failed to turn that into goals. Restless Bosso fans watched as their side wasted chance after chance and as has become the norm this season, Highlanders always seem to drop points in games that they dominate. Maclive Phiri marked his full return to Barbourfields with a solid performance but his crosses from the right wing were wasted as the forwards constantly directed their headers off target largely unchallenged. Brian Banda was first to waste a chance with a header in the 13th minute before striker Prince Dube had his fair share of missed chances with the head. Banda watched in agony as his weak effort from six yards was tipped out for a corner by Harare City goalkeeper Maxwell Nyamupangedengu in the 18th minute. Besides that save, Nyamupangedengu was untested throughout the match, as Bosso players couldn’t find the target. In the second half, Bosso fans cheered their side in search of the equaliser, but the front-line again proved impotent in front of goal. Coach Mpofu made a double substitution, bringing on Tinashe Makanda and Peter Nyirenda for Banda and Bukhosi Sibanda, but the change proved uninspiring as nothing changed upfront. An ecstatic Chitembwe said It was a good game of football and his boys were efficient in the way they expressed themselves technically. “Their application of tactics was outstanding given we only worked together for four days. I think we will only get better given more time. I’m extremely excited that I’m probably the only coach to have played one team three times in one season; even the great Pep Guardiola has not managed that feat,” said Chitembwe. Teams Highlanders: Ariel Sibanda, MacClive Phiri, Brian Banda (Peter Nyirenda 69th min), Ray Lunga (Godfrey Makaruse, 85th min) , Nqobizitha Masuku, Tendai Ndlovu, Peter Muduhwa, Mbongeni Ndlovu, Prince Dube, Bukhosi Sibanda (Tinashe Makanda, 69th min) , Divine Mhindirira Harare City: Maxwell Nyamupanedengu, Marshall Machazane, William Manondo (William Manondo 86th min), Munyaradzi Dironyenye, Hastings Chapusha, Moses Muchenje, Takudzwa Chimwemwe, Tatenda Tavengwa, Jerry Chipangura (Gareth Madhake, 75th min), Martin Vengesai, Ishmael Wadi (Tatenda Tumba, 69th min).