The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
award-winning fashion designer Thembani Mubochwa is in October set to represent the country at a prestigious Pan-African Fashion Show to be held in Paris, France. Mubochwa will be accompanied by fashionistas cum models, Lillian “Hollywood Lee” Madyara and Maxine Adams, who will showcase some of his garments at the show. The event, organised by Nigeria’s fashion icon Lexy Mojo Eyes, is slated for October 1 and 2 at UNESCO Headquarters with Mubochwa and his team expected in Paris on September 28. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Mubochwa promised to deliver the best. “I received the news last week and this is actually a dream come true as it is my first time showcasing on the international arena,” he said. “I have included my ‘fashion dolls’- fashion blogger and stylist Hollywood Lee and make up expert and fashion bug Maxine of the ‘Christian by Hadassah’ fame, as they will be my models. I will also be using models in France on the ramp.” Mubochwa said he has a surprise collection that will have more of PVC material. “After my PVC dress worn by musician Cindy Munyavi at the NAMAs went viral, I decided to popularise the trend here although it’s topping internationally. “I am going to showcase the ‘boyfriend suits- female collection detailed with PVC in a unique way as the main focus on the suit. I am going to add some African flair to my garments, which will also not only represent Zimbabwe, but put us on the map,” he said. Mubochwa added that they had finished the photo-shoot for the Paris teaser, which will be used on the promotional advertorial at the event. He is not a stranger to high profile fashion events as he has showcased at the AFR in Ethiopia and has achieved great recognition in South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana and Zambia. He won two awards at the prestigious Durban July in 2016 and 2017.   Pan-African Fashion chief executive, Lexy Mojo Eyes, said the event is being held to position Africa as the new influence on global fashion and according some of Africa’s designers an opportunity to showcase authentic African fashion and accessories. “Some of the objectives of this platform, which is held in partnership with the African Union and UNESCO, are to build bridges by creating free trade and partnerships among fashion practitioners throughout the African continent, to attract global attention to Africa’s very rich and diversified dress culture, which can be explored as a catalyst for the social economic growth of the continent’s garment-textile industry,” he said. Mojo Eyes said they want to contribute in bringing the much desired peace and stability to our continent by positively engaging youths and to further develop African economies by creating the biggest and most formidable African fashion and lifestyle market for global patronage.