The Herald Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter
The Sadc Day for Solidarity against Sanctions on Zimbabwe is significant to the country and the region as it shows unity of purpose in the bloc. This was said by Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa in an interview. At its 39th Heads of State and Government Summit in Tanzania last week, Sadc adopted October 25 as a day of solidarity against the illegal sanctions against Zimbabwe that have been in existence for close to two decades. “The day is significant to Zimbabwe and the Sadc region as it shows unity of purpose among the regional bloc. This is the first time that Sadc was unanimous in its resolution on the removal of sanctions,” she  said. Minister Mutsvangwa said the declaration was also an endorsement of President Mnangagwa. “The Dar es Salam Sadc Declaration on USA’s Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act (ZIDERA), and European Union sanctions will go down as a ringing endorsement of the leadership of President Mnangagwa. “It opens a new and exciting chapter in the diplomatic policy of engagement and re-engagement and the socio-economic economic prospects of the Second Republic. It is also a much needed tonic to the people of Zimbabwe who have withstood a deluge of negative propaganda from detractors within and without,” she said. She also said the declaration of the day was a revival of the spirit of Tanzania’s founding father, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. “It was also a revival of the spirit of Mwalimu Nyerere and his militant solidarity with the then oppressed people of Southern Africa as they heroically sacrificed to rid themselves of the triple yokes of colonialism, racism and apartheid. In the prosecution of painful revolutionary armed struggle, the then Frontline States gave the sub-region a political soul that goes beyond geographical bonds,” Minister Mutsvangwa said. The minister also said the sanctions continue to cause suffering to ordinary Zimbabweans. “Sanctions continue to cause immense suffering to Zimbabwe and the coming in of the new dispensation ushered in the re-engagement thrust aimed at thawing frosty relations with the West with the objective of getting the illegal sanctions lifted. “The continued renewal of sanctions by America is derailing Government’s efforts of rejuvenating the country’s socio-economic recovery and progression. “The country’s productive sectors — mining, agriculture, energy and manufacturing — continue to perform below capacity owing to the harsh economic environment as a result of the illegal sanctions,” she said. Minister Mutsvangwa added that the day was significant as it endorsed President Mnangagwa’s various economic and political reforms, making the sanctions unwarranted. The Sadc Summit declared October 25 as the date on which member states can collectively voice their disapproval of the sanctions through various activities and platforms until the sanctions are lifted.