The Herald SPORT and Recreation Commission chairman Gerald Mlotshwa did not write a letter to Zimbabwe Cricket boss Tavengwa Mukuhlani on Thursday advising him that the suspension of the domestic leadership of the game had been lifted. Our story published yesterday, which correctly mentioned that the SRC had taken a giant step towards resolving the domestic cricket impasse when they agreed to nullify their decision to suspend the ZC board, contained references to a letter which was said to have originated from Mlotshwa to Mukuhlani. The engagements — engineered by Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Kirsty Coventry — also ended with acting ZC managing director Givemore Makoni, bouncing back into his position. What is now left is just for an order, which the SRC have given their green light, to be issued by the Administrative Committee. The suspended ZC leaders had approached the Administrative Court seeking an order to have their suspension nullified and with the SRC agreeing to that, the granting of the order is guaranteed. However, while the two parties wait for the order to be granted by the Administrative Court, which will lift the suspension of the ZC leadership, it has come to our attention that Mlotshwa did not write any other letter related to the processes. The letter, which we quoted extensively, suggested that: “As intimated above, a number of meetings have been held with representatives of the ZC Board elected on the 14th June, the Minister of Youth, Sports, Arts and Recreation and the Chairman of the SRC. “Those meetings and deliberations have culminated in an agreed way forward which does not violate the constitution and statutes of ZC and the International Cricket Council. This letter therefore serves to officially and formally communicate to ZC the following: (a) The SRC hereby revokes its suspension of the entire Board of ZC that was elected on the 14th June 2019. (b) The SRC hereby revokes its suspension of the Acting Managing Director of ZC. (c) The SRC hereby disbands and revokes the appointment of the interim committee which it had appointed to take over and administer the affairs of ZC. (d) The SRC confirms that it has directed the interim committee and its appointees to forthwith, restore full control of all affairs of ZC to the elected board of ZC. “We confirm and restate hereto the commitment of the SRC that it shall not interfere with the administration of ZC’s affairs without consent of the International Cricket Council. “It has also been agreed by the parties that all court proceedings pending and instituted by and against the parties, shall forthwith be withdrawn.’’ However, it has come to our attention that no such letter originated from Mlotshwa, as we implied in our story, and the correct position remains, as mentioned in the SRC statement, that: “On 24th June, 2019, the applicants in the above matter, being the directors of Zimbabwe Cricket, appealed to the Administrative Court of Zimbabwe, in terms of Section 32 (1) of the Sports and Recreation Commission Act, against the decision of the SRC to suspend them as directors. “Pursuant to formal engagement initiated by the affected directors, the SRC is pleased to advise that the above matter, pending before the Administrative Court of Zimbabwe, has been settled with the parties thereto, including the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation agreeing to an order by consent. “Once issued by the Administrative Court, the order will have the effect, inter-alia, of lifting the suspension of the directors of Zimbabwe Cricket, as well as that of the acting managing director thereof. “Conversely, and upon such issuance, also by the Administrative Court, the interim committee appointed in terms of Section 30 (2) of the aforesaid Act, and including the interim managing director, shall cease to be responsible for the affairs of Zimbabwe Cricket. “The effective date of these respective occurrences shall be the date of issuance of the consent order by the Registrar of the Administrative Court of Zimbabwe,” read a statement from the Sports Commission.