The Herald Rebecca Kabaya Arts Reporter
Hundreds of people attended the popular “Braai Out Fest” held at Kingfisher Park in Harare. The annual outdoor fête was spiced up by an array of musicians, including Zimdancehall star King Shady and the controversial Vimbai Zimuto. The event kicked off around mid-morning with a performance from Highfield-based chanter King Shady, who thrilled families with his popular yesteryear hits such as “Mai Huni” and “Danmore”. “Danmore” is a track that chronicles the thieving acts of a man in the neighbourhood. Upcoming hip-hop musician Hillzy took to the stage after King Shady and belted love tracks that mesmerised women. Most of the women could be heard clamouring for more. But it was the energetic songstress Ammara Brown, who became the talking point after storming the stage bare-footed and gave a polished performance. She played songs from her discography and dedicated her song “Loyal”, to families at the outdoor event. Ammara said the track is her 2019 production. Popularly known for her controversial nude portraits, Vimbai Zimuto also took to the stage and played her popular song, “Zimbabwean Men”, much to the delight of revellers. It was a moment to remember when comedian Boss Kheda dished out his rib-cracking jokes before disc jockeys took turns on the turntables. Kwekwe-based DJ Stavo, DJ Ash Stylez and Nivek, MC Cody, DJ Back to Back and DJ Dollarbill, also took turns to entertain revellers at the Kingfisher Park. Hip-hop artiste T-Gonzi, of the “Zvenyu” fame, was the last to take to the stage. He gave a polished act that left many people clamouring for more. One of the event organisers, Nigel Chinovhiringa, was naturally elated by the turnout at the event. “The Braai Out Fest was a success and we managed to create the environment that we wanted, which was conducive to bring the family. “There were a lot of kids and families enjoyed themselves. We feel like we managed to capture what we were looking for, as people really enjoyed themselves,” he said. Chinovhiringa, who organised the event along with socialite Sarah Sinclair, said he had identified areas that required improvement in the future so that the event continues to grow. He said they would be working on the areas for their next edition of the Braai Out Fest. “There is room for improvement but we feel we did our best as people enjoyed themselves,” he said.