The Herald Tadious Manyepo and Cloud Fusire
FORGOTTEN Dynamos forward Ngandu Mangala is set to bounce back into action against the same team he destroyed at the beginning of the season. The Glamour Boys take on Mushowani Stars at Rufaro tomorrow. With strikers Simba Nhivi, Tawanda Macheke and skipper Edward Sadomba out through injuries, it looks like DeMbare coach Tonderayi Ndiraya will have to thrust the responsibility on Mangala. He scored a brace against the same opponents in the reverse fixture. New forward Evans Katemna will also be under the spotlight. Katema joined Dynamos from Mushowani Stars and is yet to open his account at the Glamour Boys. His former coach at Mushowani, Newman Mashipe, has warned his defence to keep an eye on the dreadlocked forward. “I think Evans (Katema) is one of the best strikers in the country, if not the best. “His technique in front of goal is superb. He can bully any defender on his day. He can score from any angle using either foot. “His aerial command of the ball is also incredible. That’s Evans for you. “But the good thing is my defenders know him inside out. They know exactly when and how he pounces. “Webster (Tafa), Melusi (Doley) and Eria (Mafirenyika) all know how to mark him.’’ Meanwhile, fellow struggling side Herentals’ coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva says his team is not pressing the panic button as yet despite the current woes. They have picked up only 18 points, five above basement side Bulawayo Chiefs after winning just three games and drawn a whopping nine in 17 games. The team is apparently battling a second season syndrome and they have clearly been missing the same instincts they showed in their maiden berth last year. They play equally struggling TelOne at Ascot this afternoon in a game they have to win to ease their worries.  At this same stage last season, Herentals had already showed some intent and were in mid-table. But they have failed to replicate that in this term.  “Of course, we are struggling but we haven’’t a point where it would be worth to press the panic buttons.  “We are targeting to grind points in the second half of the season. If you can remember well, last season we didn’’t do very well in the first half of the marathon.  “We still managed to pick ourselves in the second period and lost very few matches. We finished strongly on sixth and we will do the same this coming stretch,” said Mutiwekuziva. Meanwhile, struggling Yadah Stars coach, Genesis Mangombe believes he has received a timely boost with the return of his experienced duo of Leeroy Mavhunga and Byron Madzokere ahead of their clash with Hwange today at Rufaro. The two missed the team’s last two matches against Harare City and Mushowani Stars as they were on national duty with the Warriors at the CHAN tournament. “I think in our last game against Mushowani we failed to convert a lot chances, we were not sharp in our attack.  But we are happy with the return of Leeroy into our attack given he performed well in the CHAN games, l think we can create a lot of problems for our opponents. “In our defence, Byron returns and help our backline and we hope their experience will add value into the team,” said Mangombe.