The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Beitbridge residents will tomorrow night be treated to two of the most loved local music genres when Leonard Zhakata and Tryson Chimbetu perform at Gomba Cafe in the border town. The two Zora and Dendera music frontmen promised a night to remember as they mark a memorable return to Beitbridge after a long hiatus. “We can’t wait to perform before our Beitbridge fans tomorrow night, and it is our hope that they come in their numbers. “It has been long since we performed there and Zora music has evolved over time, but it continues to be a favourite of many. Fans should expect the best of yesteryear and present day hits at the show,” Zhakata said. A consistent and evergreen performer, Zhakata continues to command respect with music lovers and critics alike. The much respected Zimbabwe All Stars band leader has stayed free of unnecessary controversies, and has remained exemplary in his conduct on and off stage. Firebrand Dendera musician Tryson Chimbetu, whose star continues to shine following a recent branding deal with a local marketing and brand development company, also promised fireworks. “We can’t wait to deliver the best of Dendera music tomorrow night. Morale is very high in our Marxist Dendera Brothers camp, and we are geared to deliver a polished performance at the show,” he said. Chimbetu also shared his admiration for Zhakata, who he described as a pacesetter and role model. “Mukoma Zhakata is one artiste I respect and emulate in local music circles. He has remained professional and consistent throughout his career, and that’s a virtue we are instilling in our Marxist Dendera outfit,” Chimbetu said. The affable Dendera crooner said he was encouraged by the support he continues to receive from fellow musicians and promoters in the country. “I am grateful to the elders in the arts industry, like mudhara Alick Macheso and mukoma Zhakata, who have continued to leverage my art. The same also goes to promoters, who are giving us the platform and opportunity to perform, and we promise to deliver to satisfaction,” he said. The Beitbridge show is expected to pull music followers from as far as Gwanda, Masvingo and Musina in neighbouring South Africa.