The Herald Standard Chartered Bank, one of the  country’s biggest and oldest financial institutions, has said it will  close its Gweru branch next month and transfer the city’s accounts to  Bulawayo. In a statement, the bank’s Head, Retail Banking Valeta Mthimkhulu, said  Standard Chartered Bank will close its Gweru branch on October 1 after  realising that clients now preferred to transact digitally instead of going to the physical bank.  The bank said the closure of the branch was also in alignment with  global banking trends, where the use mobile and digital banking was  becoming dominant. “We have also noted that our clients are preferring to transact more  digitally, including on our recently launched SC Mobile App, our ATMs as  well as our online and mobile banking,” Mthimkulu said.  “Following on the above, and to align with global standards, we have  re-looked our distribution of network and wish to advise that with  effect from the 1st of October 2019 we will be closing Gweru Branch and  all accounts will be domiciled at Bulawayo branch.” The bank said the account transfers to Bulawayo will not affect its  Gweru clients, but allow them to relate to a particular branch while  being able do transactions at any branch. “Whilst branch domiciliation allows you to relate to a particular  branch, you have always been able to do your transactions at any branch  and on our digital platforms,” Mthimkhulu said. Furthermore, the bank said that the SC Mobile App can be downloaded by  all clients, and this offered many services. “Our new digital bank which can be assessed through the SC Mobile App  can be downloaded from Google play store or Apple App store and has over 70 banking services for your 24/7 transaction and service convenience  such as card replacement and blocking, Ecocash registration, statements  requests and change of personal details amongst others,” Mthimkhulu  said. The bank did not say, however, what the fate of the Gweru branch  employees will be.- The Times-New Ziana.