The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor KAITANO TEMBO says he cannot rule out the possibility of coaching the Warriors one day, but insists his immediate focus is on writing a success story at SuperSport United. And, he says, he is learning, as much as he can, from such legends like Pitso Mosimane. The 49-year-old coach is the only Zimbabwean gaffer in charge of a South African Premiership side. He has guided the Pretoria side to their second straight appearance in the MTN8 Cup final after eliminating cross-town rivals, league champions Mamelodi Sundowns. They meet Highlands Park in the MTN8 Cup final at Orlando Stadium in Soweto next Saturday. Tembo’s men lost in the final of the same tournament, exactly a year ago, when they succumbed to a 1-4 penalty shoot-out defeat at the hands of Cape Town City at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. The former Dynamos and Warriors centre-back was thrust into the Matsatsansa hot seat, in August last year, on a two-year deal, after years of serving the club as a player, assistant and caretaker coach. “Kaitano epitomises what it means to be a club man,” SuperSport United chief executive, Stanley Mathews, said when they decided to give him the job. “He joined us as a player 19 years ago and has worked his way through our youth structures and subsequently into the first team as an assistant. “He has steered us on a caretaker basis on three separate occasions and everyone at the club is committed to reciprocating his loyalty and his desire to win silverware.” And, after impressing in his first season and guiding his team to another place in the MTN8 Cup final, his adventure has, inevitably, been drawing attention from many back home. Some are even suggesting he now has the credentials to be considered to coach the Warriors. The senior national team are under the guidance of caretaker coach, Joey Antipas, who left South African side Amazulu two years ago after the Durban side acquired a Super Diski franchise. Interestingly, Tembo’s SuperSport host Amazulu, who have Zimbabwe internationals – Ovidy Karuru and Talent Chawapiwa – in a league match in Pretoria tonight. ‘‘At the moment my focus is to make a mark at SuperSport and grow to be a better coach,’’ Tembo told The Saturday Herald yesterday when asked if he could consider a call to coach the Warriors. ‘‘But, at the same time, you never know what the future holds.’’ In April last year, Tembo became the first SuperSport United coach to guide the team to victory in the Tshwane Derby in half-a-dozen years after his team beat Sundowns 2-0 in a league match. And, two weeks ago, in the MTN8 semi-final, second leg match, Tembo again guided his men to victory over their city rivals courtesy of goals by Teboho Mokoena and Jamie Webber. ‘‘It is one of my finest moments as a Head Coach,’’ Tembo said. ‘‘I say this because we also got the final of the same competition last season and this is the third in a row. ‘‘After losing it on penalties to Cape Town City last season, this gives us another opportunity to win it this season and we looking forward to the final. ‘‘It (the semi-final) was played over two legs and we drew the first leg 1-1 so they had the advantage. We knew the pressure was on them and that allowed us to play with more freedom. ‘‘We needed to get a goal, irrespective whether they scored first. Lucky enough we scored first and that made them panic and they became reckless in their approach but we stayed disciplined tactically and managed the game very well. ‘‘There are other achievements, which I’m really proud of, like saving the club from relegation when I was caretaker coach as well as finishing 6th in my first season as head coach.’’ Despite his latest triumph over Mosimane, who has cast a huge shadow over South African football after transforming Sundowns into the dominant club in that country, and one of the heavyweights in the CAF Champions League, Tembo said he was still learning from the old master. ‘‘Well since I was appointed I have played Pitso five times, won two, lost two and drew one, which is not bad considering that we had not won against Pitso for the past seven years,’’ he said. ‘‘Pitso is one of the coaches I have great respect for because of his passion for the game. ‘‘I learnt a lot from him when I was captain under his leadership and I’m still learning from him. He is the most successful coach in South Africa and he is also well respected on the continent. ‘‘So, this result (the MTN8 semi-final win) doesn’t really mean much to me because I still have a lot to achieve compared to him. ‘‘We are a team that is progressing gradually and the players are now understanding and taking charge of my game model. ‘‘Our target is always to improve from the previous season in all aspects of our game and ambitions and finish higher than last season.’’