The Herald DHAKA. — Zimbabwe all-rounder Sean Williams feels the Chevrons have a good chance against the under-pressure Tigers in the tri-nations contest today. The all-rounder believes the hosts will be under pressure. “It is definitely,” replied Williams. “Like I said, if we focus on what we need to do, everything will take care of itself. “They are under pressure, we know that. But you know again it goes back to us doing the basics. “I think Bangladesh is a very strong team all round. They have got a very good structure going all the way down to the club levels. “T20 cricket can go either way. Like I said, fine margins. You know, they have got some very very good players, some very experienced campaigners. “They have Shakib, Mahmudullah, Mushi. You know they are all very good players and we respect that fact. “We would just like to go out there, focus on our own things and do what is required for our team.’’ With a few inexperienced players in the Zimbabwe set-up, as far as the Bangladesh conditions are concerned, Williams stressed on the importance of the senior players in the team to lead by example. “What we do, as senior players, is important as a backbone of the team to teach them for the future. Obviously, there has been a few of us under-performing of late. So we need to step up as a senior group and obviously get the junior following. “They got us out of trouble twice now. If the seniors can step up i.e. Craig (Ervine), myself, Brendan is showing signs of very good form on its way. “So, yeah, if we can step up I think we have a very good chance.” Williams said the current series has been a good opportunity for the team to bond and put on a united front. “It is extremely important. Obviously, we have learnt a lot from what we have been through. “And I think you can see the team starting to bond more and more and come together more as a unit.” Zimbabwe travel to Singapore next for a tri-nation series in September-October, which also involves Nepal, apart from the host nation. With the current series being Hamilton Masakadza’s swansong, Williams will lead the team. “Obviously, leading up to the Singapore series with the young guys coming to join the squad, a couple of the senior guys going across to Singapore, I think it is going to be exciting. “I really look forward to having those junior guys coming through the ranks. “They are really showing signs, some of them could be world class players. “I wish them all the very best and hopefully we can watch them go all the way.” — Cricbuzz.