The Herald Business Reporter LAND and property development concern, Craft Properties (Pvt) Ltd, says it will soon officially commission Greenfield Cherries agro-residential plots in Kadoma after it completed the servicing massive project. The agro-residential plots are conveniently situated 4.5 kilometres m from the Kadoma central business district along Harare–Bulawayo highway while 25,5 kilometres away from the mining and agricultural town of Chegutu making it exactly 136,5km from Harare. Greenfield Cherries project sits on a 50 hectare piece of land and has 93 agro-residential plots measuring an average of 4 000 square metres suitable for horticultural and poultry projects among others. Senior government officials from the ministry of public works . . . are expected to officially commission the project on October 25 next month. The overall scope of the project has seen the construction of road network comprising of main and access roads, storm-water drainage system, including the standard water drains, culverts and inverts. Perennial Mshama river will be the major source of water cutting through the area, a critical resource considering the rich loam soils for agriculture. Meanwhile, Craft Properties (Pvt) Ltd says it remains committed to the professional implementation of housing development projects with an aim to fulfil Government of Zimbabwe’s vision to cut the ever growing housing backlog and infrastructural development. Conveying the message through a statement Craft properties hinted that the peri-urban project was conducive for dual residential and horticulture purposes at the same time calling  for the commencement of construction. “Beneficiaries of the agro-residential plots who have not yet started developing their plots are hereby encouraged to come forward and commence development as this project is aimed at changing the face of Kadoma City.” “The project is ideal for Zimbabweans who want to experience the urban scenario while feeling the freshness of the countryside.” Developers have permitted a maximum height of three storeys for buildings. Craft properties holdings Zimbabwe intends to continue rolling out projects of such calibre in other parts of country. Greenfield Cherries will also ensure that the City of Kadoma is  sufficiently supplied with horticultural produce including vegetables, tomatoes, onions, potatoes, eggs and others such as chicken and fish.