The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS coach Tonderai Ndiraya yesterday said they will not risk rushing their skipper Edward Sadomba back into action. They are bracing for difficult games ahead, including the trip to ZPC Kariba tomorrow. The veteran forward has been on the sidelines for the past nine weeks after suffering a concussion during a league match against Black Rhinos at Rufaro on July 13. Ndiraya yesterday said the captain needs, at least, three more weeks before he could come back.
“He has been out for some time, almost seven weeks, I am not sure. Naturally, it means his fitness has really gone down. But we expect him to come back,’’ said Ndiraya. “He joined the rest of the team this week. Last week he did light training. So we expect him to push the next two to three weeks and as soon as he gets his fitness back on track then we can start considering him. “Otherwise, there is no need for us to rush him. He has been out for some time and if we rush him it means he won’t last the distance and will be prone to other injuries. “So, apart from the concussion, we are also working on his general physical fitness so that he won’t pick more injuries.’’ With the league race now heading towards the final home-stretch, Ndiraya indicated he would need all his best players available. DeMbare have suffered a spat of injuries in the last two months. Striker Simba Nhivi, Tawanda Macheke, Tanaka Chinengeta, Panashe Siziba and Robert Sackey are also sidelined by injuries. Dynamos travel to Kariba on the back of a 10-match unbeaten run which has seen them move to within six points of joint log leaders ZPC Kariba and FC Platinum. “It’s a very interesting match. I think it’s one which is going to test our character. I think Kariba has always been a difficult venue for many teams. “It’s mainly to do with the weather conditions.
“So, you are mainly playing against the weather conditions more than anything else. “And, with the form ZPC Kariba are in at the moment, you know you have quite a bit of a match in your hands,” said Ndiraya. Fixtures
Tomorrow: TelOne v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Ascot), Chicken Inn v Manica Diamonds (Luveve), ZPC Kariba v Dynamos (Nyamhunga)
Sunday: Hwange v Highlanders (Colliery), Mushowani Stars v Chapungu (Trojan Mine)
Wednesday: Harare City v CAPS United (Rufaro), Yadah v Bulawayo Chiefs (National Sports Stadium)