The Herald Tendai Rupapa in Mbire
The Doma community in Angwa, Mbire district, yesterday came out in numbers and had a memorable fun-filled day characterised by various activities, courtesy of First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa’s Angel of Hope Foundation. The Doma community occupies a vast swathe of land that spreads from Angwa north-east of Mushumbi Pools to Kanyemba at the borders with Zambia and Mozambique, and had for long lived mainly secluded from the rest of the country, reluctant to share their world with other ethnic groups. However, Amai Mnangagwa, through Angel of Hope, has been making numerous visits to the once marginalised community in a bid to blend them with others. Yesterday, the Doma people gathered at Angwa Clinic where they interacted with vaKorekore through sport and competitions among various activities. The environment was characterised by lots of entertainment that included modelling, dancing, singing and cooking competitions among other activities. The groups showcased vast talents. It was not only a family fun day as Angel of Hope Foundation also rolled out sewing and knitting projects in the area and donated sewing machines and a team of experts that will offer training. Women were then urged to form clubs. Amai Mnangagwa introduced similar projects in other villages in Kanyemba such as Chiruhwe, Mariga and Chapoto, a move aimed at empowering women so that they become self-reliant. The First Lady was making follow-ups on the projects she initiated in Kanyemba and introducing new ones. Yesterday’s fun day participants walked away with various prizes. Minister of State for Mashonaland Central Provincial Affairs Monica Mavhunga, who was representing Amai Mnangagwa at yesterday’s event, applauded the First Lady for having marginalised communities at heart. She thanked her for bringing development and entertainment to the Doma community. “We had several netball teams here who participated in the competitions and the sporting initiative was a move to allow women to unwind while taking part in various sporting activities and to educate them on the importance of exercises to their overall health and well-being,” she said. “As you know, our First Lady is the country’s Health and Child Care Ambassador, therefore she is passionate about women’s wellness and fitness.” She added: “Amai’s charity foundation also focuses mainly on the empowerment of vulnerable communities especially women and children across the country. Therefore, we would like to thank her for remembering the people of Kanyemba. She is always visiting them, a sign that she has them at heart.” “The modelling competitions build women’s self-esteem and the way men were beating drums brought so much joy and jubilation among the crowd. “Overall, I would like to thank the First Lady for spending time with her children in Kanyemba. We cherish her visits.” Mr Chabiso Yatsanga, who participated in the drum beating and dancing competitions, was over the moon when he scooped the first prize. Mrs Nene June described the First Lady as an angel of hope and thanked her for giving them an opportunity to showcase their talents. Another villager, Mrs Arinesi Mungala, could not hide her joy when her team won the cooking competition after preparing delicious dishes that included roasted chicken, stewed goat meat, vegetables and sadza. Angel of Hope Foundation gave the villagers some foodstuffs, clothing and pregnant women also received new-born baby kits. Children walked away with toys and reading materials. The First Lady’s charity arm constructed a mothers’ shelter in Chiruhwe village, where expecting mothers will be housed while awaiting their delivery time. The shelter, which was handed over to the community by the First Lady on Friday, is expected to end cases of risky home baby deliveries as in the past the Doma women resorted to home deliveries due to long distances they had to travel to the nearest health facility. Amai Mnangagwa also introduced an income generating project — castor bean production — in all the Kanyemba villages.