The Herald Business Reporter
Integrated IT solutions firm Tech24 is fast becoming Zimbabwe’s dominant powerhouse in omnichannel services. Omnichannel services are relatively recent cross-channel content strategies that companies and organisations use to improve their user experience. The Zimbabwe-based company has enhanced its capacities by launching the Ameyo business software package in the local market. “The Ameyo software has enhanced our capacity to manage our clients’ omnichannel interactions, empowering their workforces with simple and intuitive integrations, and enabling customers to self-service. “We have moved from a single client to gaining a 40 percent market share to date on the back of Ameyo,” said Tech24 sales manager Fadzai Masoso. Ameyo is a call centre management software that transforms customer experience by integrating front office communication with back office processes to eventually deliver exceptional service and impress the customers. Ameyo provides enterprises with an excellent platform for analysing and improving customer journey. “Tech24 is able to offer a variety of solutions to its customers ranging from renting facilities; desks, chairs, computers and associated technologies to a complete outsourcing solution, including desks, chairs, as well as supervisors and call centre managers. “Tech24 operates as though it is an extension of the client company’s brand. Given access to the client company’s systems, Tech24 will be able to emulate the environment, thus delivering superior customer service as well as value for money.” The firm’s local client list includes GeneInsurance, BancABC, Liquid Telecom, and FBC Holdings just to mention a few.Tech24, a growing giant in Zimbabwe’s call centre industry, is also one of the major sponsors of next month’s inaugural BPO & Contact Centre Conference and Expo. The inaugural BPO & Contact Centre Conference and Expo forms part of the first large scale developmental initiative aimed at positioning Zimbabwe as a global BPO and Contact Centre destination. The conference will draw together global players, investors and local players with in-house and outsourcing contact centres, policy makers, government leaders, technology vendor suppliers, and developmental agencies among others.