The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZRP MAMBAS coach Talent Museka has challenged his side to rise to the occasion when they face Goldreef today in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League at Morris Depot. After going down 44-55 to ZDF over the weekend, the Police side is looking at getting a positive result that will keep them in the run for a top four finish. “We are well prepared for tomorrow’s game. Last time when we played ZDF we lost because we made very simple mistakes that cost us. “So, we went back and worked on those mistakes and I think from what we have done so far we are very ready for that game tomorrow (today). “In our game against ZDF, we lost possession of the ball unnecessarily, so that’s what we have been working on since Monday and today (yesterday). ‘’From what we have been working on, I think it’s really going to help us. “We want to win that game. I know for the championship we are out because we have lost four games so far but we want to fight for a position that will see us getting a prize at the end of the season.’’ Museka said the absence of their experienced goal-shooter, Pauline Jani, on national duty with Gems for the World Cup, derailed their campaign. “The first thing that affected us was the World Cup camping because a player like Pauline Jani is a pillar for our team. “She was not available for most of the first half of the season. Some games we lost, it was because she was not part of the team. “If she was there I think we would not have lost those games. “We went to Angola for the SARPCCO Games and the majority of the Mambas team were the ones that went to Angola and when we came back we had some injuries,” Museka said. However, Museka said they will be pinning their hopes on the likes of Jani, defender Cynthia Gamuhirai and utility player Lisa Masiya. ZDF Queens coach, Joel Sibanda, is pleased with the way they have acquitted themselves so far in the league. Fixtures Today: Tenax v Ngezi (Mutare Farm Prison), ZRP Mambas v Goldreef (Morris Depot). Tomorrow: Golden Valley v Glow Petroleum (Golden Valley).