The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Arts Reporter
VABATI VaJehova has over the past decades reaffirmed itself as one of the country’s best gospel choral groups through the ability to infuse its music with other genres. From its formation, the outfit has managed to sail through turbulent waves that robbed it of its key members through death. Misunderstandings, at some point, also accounted for the exodus of its members, who went on to form other music groups threatening its future. But through faith and resilience, the gospel music outfit managed to sail through and recorded 18 albums to date plus many other singles. Diversification seems to be paying off for the group which has collaborated with musicians from various genres. Collaborations, which came from  2010 to date, have seen the “Korona” singers being appreciated by many music followers. In 2011, Vabati VaJehova featured on United States-based gospel musician and former radio presenter, Chaka Ngwenya’s track “Makanaka Jesu”. The choral group’s collaboration with Ngwenya afforded it a chance to be heard on US music markets at that time. Five years later, Vabati VaJehova did a song “Nguva Yakwana” with another gospel singer, Kudzie Nyakudya, who included it on his album “Pfumo Rinobaya Kwese”. Vabati VaJehova’s string of collaborations seem to have paid off in 2017 when the choral group featured on dancehall musician, Winky D’s track-”Ngirozi”-off his album “Gombwe”. The song was a hit on the local charts with the follow up video making great waves on the international  arena. It was not so long before they again featured on chanter Blitz Unique’s track “Tiri Huruva”, which has an accompanying video. “Tiri Huruva” was released sometime last year. This year, Vabati VaJehova hogged the limelight following the release of the song “Fambai Naro” featuring Jah Prayzah. The song had an accompanying video that claimed many views on Youtube. Leader of the renowned choral group, Richard Magaya, revealed that they were not yet over with collabos, as they were working on another single track with Afro-fusion musician Alven Magaya. He said the song is set for release before the end of the year. Alven is son to the late Wiseman Magaya, one of the group’s key band members who died in 2007 aged 38. “We are working on an Afro-fusion single with the son to the late Wiseman Magaya,” he said. “Alven is still an upcoming artiste and we decided to help him find ground on the music scene. He has three songs which he did on his own, but we advised him to stop releasing them until we complete the one we are working on. “This is a fine project people should look forward to before the end of this year,” he said.