The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Arts Reporter
RISING gospel musician Brighton Parwaringira will scale greater heights in music if the successful launch of his third album “Mwari Mubatsiri” is anything to by, Pastor Charles Charamba has said. The Fishers of Men frontman said this on Saturday during Parwaringira’s album launch at The Venue in Avondale, Harare, where various other gospel outfits performed. Pastor Charamba endorsed Parwaringira’s album saying he was poised for greatness on the African continent through his music, if he remains focused. “You are different from others and you are sanctified. Continue making good music and Africa will accept you. Your songs will speak to people who do not know you, and they will mend people’s lives,” said Pastor Charamba after he was asked to bless the album. Speaking on the sidelines of the launch, Parwaringira expressed delight over the overwhelming response he received from the audience that included artistes from Zambia. “This is my first time to launch an album in the country, and I was at first nervous on whether people will embrace my music. I am overwhelmed by the appreciation that has been shown by these people. “I am also thankful to other gospel musicians who graced this event. Their support tells a story of unity and love among gospel musicians in the country,” he said. Parwaringira, who gave a top- drawer performance during the launch, is planning to take his music across Africa with his first stop being Zambia. The 36-year-old revealed that he had plans to exploit new markets in countries where he has never taken his music before. “I have toured countries in Southern and Central Africa where I have held a number of crusades. This time around I have plans to tour countries I have never been before. “My album has a number of genres that range from rhumba, township jazz, pasada, Afro-fusion and even our own sungura trademark. “I believe the different genres found on the album will make it easy for us to penetrate new markets,” he said. Tracks on the album include “Zita raJesu” featuring Gugulethu Nkomo, “Kugadziria”, “Ndinokunda”, “Ndibatei Ruoko”, “Moyo Wanga”, “Muropa raJesu”, “Munyengeri” featuring Sharon Cherai-Manyonganise, “Munyaradzi” and “Rumbidza Jehova”. It also carries an instrumental to the title track. The 10-track album was produced by veteran producers, Jabulani Ndlovu and MacDonald ‘MacDee” Chidavaenzi.