The Herald Charmaine Brown Herald Reporter Vice President Kembo Mohadi is expected to officially open the second edition of the National Annual Science, Sport and Arts Festival (NASSAF) in Bulawayo on Friday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Professor Paul Mavima said yesterday. NASSAF is meant to showcase products of the new curriculum. It also seeks to develop the enormous reservoir of talents and gifts that learners are endowed with that are key to the sustainable socio-economic development of the nation. Minister Mavima told journalists that the ministry developed a critical component of the competence-based curriculum which is the NASSAF festivals that are implemented in all learning institutions across the country. He said each province will send a delegation of 225 learners to the festival that will run from September 16 to 20, 2019. “Government through the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education is implementing the fit for purpose competence that seeks to develop the talents of all learners to the maximum extent possible. “Catching our children young will ensure that Zimbabwe will have cadres who will be very competitive on the international arena. “Learners will be given the opportunity to showcase skills, knowledge, values and attitude in disciplines such as in technical graphics, wood technology and design, drawing, karate, educational gymnastics, marimba, brass and electric band, mass displays, athletics, food technology exhibitions, heritage, stone sculpture exhibitions, basketry, metal technology and design exhibitions, fish farming, contemporary dance, ICT and Olympiads,” he said. The festival will be running under the theme: “Nurturing talent through the competence based curriculum”. Professor Mavima said Government was targeting to build at least 2 000 new schools countrywide in the next five years through the OPEC Fund for International Development. He said after completing 17 schools, Government will construct 100 more new schools across the country under the next phase of the OFID programme, which is expected to increase the fund to $40 million.