The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter WHEN Simba Nhivi shot to prominence on the domestic Premiership with Shooting Stars and CAPS United in 2011, there were strong indications he could become a star player. The way he could fearlessly take on defenders and convert chances as a 20-year-old fresh from Pamushana High School was remarkable. Even South African giants Mamelodi Sundowns immediately came knocking for his signature. But, eight years down the line, the striker is yet to realise his dream. He has endured a journey blighted by injuries. The Dynamos forward is currently nursing ankle and knee injuries that have made him ineligible for selection in the last few weeks. “It’s disappointing for any player to get injured, especially when you think you have come back and you are beginning to settle,’’ he said. “As a football player, generally, you cannot run away from these things as long as you are still actively involved in the game. “These injuries have disturbed me a lot in my career. But it’s how you pick yourself up that matters when you encounter such setbacks. “Of course, I am disappointed by the disturbances they cause, but the good thing is I haven’t lost focus. “I am working on that and I am hoping to come back stronger.’’ The injuries have stalked the 28-year-old during a career which has seen him playing in Zimbabwe, South Africa and Tanzania. Last year, he had to delay his debut for Ngezi Platinum by several weeks after he broke his arm on his first day of training. “The team always come first, and with the kind of understanding that I was developing with Evans (Katema) and the other teammates, I think I am missing a lot,’’ he said. “But I am getting better and better. I still feel some pain on my knee, but there is remarkable progress. “I am waiting for the medical team to give me their assessment before I start full training with the rest of the team. “It’s sad Evans is also injured and, obviously, it affects the rhythm. But I know we have got some good players who can also do well.’’ Dynamos coach, Tonderayi Ndiraya, says they have been keeping a close eye on the developments in the Highlanders camp. The two giants meet in the 2019 Chibuku Super Cup first round tie at Rufaro tomorrow. The match was originally set for the National Sports Stadium, but the authorities yesterday decided to shift the venue to Rufaro. The giant stadium will now host Black Rhinos and TelOne on the same day. Highlanders have been struggling this season and have beefed up their technical department by hiring experienced Dutch coach Hendrik Pieter De Jongh. “Honestly, from a personal point of view, I’m expecting a very exciting match,’’ said Ndiraya. “I am told there are some changes at Highlanders, and naturally, when there are changes, the team tends to change itself and try to do well for the new coach. “I think it’s quite evident from yesterday’s (Wednesday) match. It had been a long time since Highlanders won or scored three goals in a single match.’’ Chibuku Super Cup Fixtures Today: Ngezi Platinum Stars v Mushowani Stars (Baobab), CAPS United v Harare City (NSS), ZPC Kariba v Hwange (Nyamhunga) Tomorrow: Dynamos v Highlanders (Rufaro), Chicken Inn v Manica Diamonds (Luveve), Black Rhinos v Tel One (NSS). Postponed: FC Platinum v Chapungu (TBA), Triangle v Herentals (TBA).