The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere Sports Reporter
LEICESTER City forward Admiral Muskwe is a doubtful starter for today’s World Cup preliminary round qualifier against Somalia because of a groin strain. The 21-year-old forward is regarded as one of the future stars of the team. However, chaotic travel arrangements for his trip to Djibouti left him exposed and he suffered a groin strain in the first match on Thursday. He endured a 14-hour flight from England to Djibouti, without a decent meal which professional athletes are expected to take, and the youthful forward ended up feeling discomfort in his groin after the match. At Dubai International Airport, where he waited for three hours for a connecting flight to Djibouti, together with stand-in skipper Alec Mudimu, Muskwe had to drink only water. The duo failed to find fresh food and recommended meals. Despite the pain, Muskwe finished yesterday’s workout but sources in the team said the coach was unlikely to throw him straight into battle. That job could go to Clive Augusto. Speaking to The Herald, after yesterday’s workout at the National Sports Stadium, Muskwe said he would love to play today but was waiting for advice from the doctors. “Obviously, I want to play in these big games and, hopefully, I will be ready for this one, but me and the doctor will sit down and talk about it. “It is only halfway, the first leg was played away and now we are playing at home, we just need to get the job done and I am very confident it can be done. “I have confidence in the players, and the team, that we will get the job done comfortably. “To the supporters, I just want to say come and support the team, hopefully, we will send you back home happy.’’ He also talked about comparisons being made about his game and Benjani Mwaruwari, spoke about his admiration of Peter Ndlovu as well as his omission from the Warriors squad that represented the country in Egypt. “To be compared with the players like Benjani is a good thing, he has done very well in the Premier League and for the country,’’ he said. “If I can do like what he did, I will be very happy. “Peter Ndlovu also did very well in the Premier League and the Warriors and he is a big inspiration as well. “I was left from the squad that went to the Africa Cup of Nations but I respect the decision of the former manager and his technical team, now it gives me more energy to want to do more for the team.’’ Baroka FC goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze is expected to be given the nod ahead of Talbert Shumba. France-based midfielder Marshall Munetsi, who featured in the latest issue of France Football magazine in which his talent is being praised, could be another key player.