The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Chevrons are expected back on the pitch, after two months of inactivity and uncertainty, when they date familiar opponents Bangladesh in a T20 triangular series that begins in Dhaka tomorrow. The Chevrons are set to play Bangladesh and Afghanistan twice in round-robin matches that will culminate in the final on September 24. Zimbabwe’s middle order batsman, Craig Ervine, told the Zimbabwe Cricket media the players were focussed on doing well at the competition. “I think we have obviously had a short camp coming into this tour. But having said that, the guys are fresh,’’ he said. “The guys haven’t been doing much for the last couple of months, so they are keen to put the work in, (they are) keen to play some cricket. “Everybody is looking forward to this tour.’’ This tour could have been a good opportunity to prepare for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Qualifier. But, Zimbabwe will only play for pride after they were booted out of the tournament because of a suspension imposed on ZC by the ICC. The ban, which left the game paralysed back home, is expected to be lifted when the world body hold their next board meeting on October 12. Zimbabwe need to bounce back after posting disappointing results in their last tour of Europe where they lost games to Netherlands and Ireland in June and July. They had a fine rehearsal ahead of the triangular series yesterday when they defeated the Bangladesh Cricket Board XI by seven wickets in a practice match. Brendan Taylor (57) and Timycen Maruma (46) saw the team comfortably home in the warm-up game with some fine knocks that helped overturn a target of 143 runs. However, they still need to up their game ahead of the real competition. Their opponents for the triangular series have already hit the ground running in a one-off Test where the Afghans upset their hosts by 224 runs. “Afghanistan and Bangladesh have got decent bowling attacks so we have got to be up against it. “But we need to embrace that challenge and just come out and express ourselves, enjoy being here in Bangladesh and enjoy the       cricket. “I think it’s always going to be tough because Bangladesh and Afghanistan are more familiar with these conditions than us. “But, having said that, T20 is anybody’s game on the day. “So, I think, if we can execute our plans well and guys can put some runs on the board I think there is no reason why we can’t make it to the final,” said Ervine. The series will be more significant for captain Hamilton Masakadza who is set for his swansong after announcing retirement from international cricket recently. “It’s obviously going to be tough for him to know that he is playing in his last series and all I could ask of everybody else is to come together, play as a unit and give him good send-off hopefully with a series win. “Otherwise, it’s just a few wins for him to end his great career,” said Ervine. Zimbabwe pace bowler Kyle Jarvis is also excited by the upcoming series. “Good to be back in (Zimbabwe) colours again after the months of chaos! Should be an exciting tri-series with @BCBtigers and @ACBofficials,” tweeted Jarvis. Chevrons coach Lalchand Rajput said they are focusing on rebuilding a new team after blending youth and experience in his squad. “We will not make wholesale changes, as we definitely still need some of the experienced players to help the new generation find their feet in international cricket. “It is important that we still field a competitive side — that is why we have a good mix of youth and experience in the team that has been selected for the Bangladesh tour,” said Rajput. Zimbabwe squad: Hamilton Masakadza (captain), Regis Chakabva, Richmond Mutumbami, Sean Williams, Neville Madziva, Tinotenda Mutombodzi, Tony Munyonga, Kyle Jarvis, Tendai Chatara, Christopher Mpofu, Craig Ervine, Brendan Taylor, Ainsley Ndlovu, Timycen Maruma, Ryan Burl. 