The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
AFTER taking a one-month break, following their participation in the tough 2019 FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships at Donnybrook in Harare, some of the country’s top junior and senior male and female riders are set to return to the same venue this Sunday. They will take part in the latest round of this year’s National Championship series. This year’s African Championships were held on August 31 and September 1 where Zimbabwe, for the umpteenth time, finished second behind perennial continental champions South Africa. Zimbabwe fielded a strong team of 59 bikers who were led by MX1 rider Jayden Ashwell who, together with young Daiyaan “D” Manuel, were the outstanding riders in Team Zimbabwe. Ashwell has since returned to his base in South Africa but Manuel, of St John’s College in Harare, is expected to be back riding at his favourite hunting ground at Donnybrook this coming Sunday where he will be competing in the 85cc Class, a section which he has monopolised this year. Manuel is set to resume his rivalry in the 85cc Class with fellow talented young rider Emmanuel Bako who missed this year’s FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships through injury after dislocating his shoulder during practice ahead of the continental event. Bako will be celebrating his 13th birthday on Sunday and his father and manager, Brighton, told The Herald his son has fully recovered from the shoulder injury. “He was writing his Grade Seven exams this week but this did not stop him from preparing for this Sunday’s Nationals and he is determined to give it his best shot and claim a place on the podium,” Brighton said. But another junior rider, 12-year-old Tadiwanashe Nyamupfukudza, who also missed this year’s African Championships through injury, is unlikely to return to the track on Sunday as she is still recuperating from a hand injury she sustained a week before the continental event. Her father, Simbarashe, said yesterday that his daughter has had her plaster taken off from her hand and she was recovering well. But his son, five-year-old Victor, who charmed a number of motocross fans with the way he handled his small machine in the PeeWee Class, which is designed for riders under the age of seven, during the African Championships will be back on the track on Sunday at Donnybrook.