The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
TWO young Zimbabwean motocross stars were born during the 2019 FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships over the weekend at Donnybrook Park in Harare. This year’s African Championships attracted a record number of more than 200 entries from seven countries. Zimbabwe, as the host nation, fielded a strong team of 59 of its top junior and senior male and female riders who showcased their riding skills during the two days of motocross racing. And two unpolished diamonds — Victor Nyamupfukudza and Kudzwai Chitsurura — were unearthed during these championships. They were part of Team Zimbabwe who, once again, settled for second place overall behind South Africa, the perennial winners of this annual continental motorcycling event. Five-year-old Nyamupfukudza competed in the PeeWees Class, which is designed for junior riders under the age of seven, while Chitsurura (7) represented Zimbabwe in the 50cc Class. It’s a section for bikers who are nine years and under. Nyamupfukudza won almost all his races and was the darling of the big crowd of close to 10 000 spectators who watched the last day of the championships on Sunday. An ECD B pupil at Houghton Park Primary School in Harare, Nyamupfukudza was introduced to the sport by his father and trainer Simbarashe who told The Herald his son is already a passionate rider. Victor’s 12-year-old sister Tadiwanashe is also into motocross. “As you know, motocross is a very expensive sport and as a parent I had to sacrifice a lot of my financial resources in-order to get Victor into the sport because he just fell in love with it the moment I took him to Donnybrook to watch his sister Tadiwanashe racing in the club and national championship series. “He (Victor) is currently competing in the PeeWees but will be moving a class up into the 50cc Class for next year and this means I have to fork out more money to get him a new bike but I have no choice because the young boy just loves this sport,” Simbarashe said. Another young Zimbabwean rider, Chitsurura, also impressed in the 50cc Class in which he came 16th overall in a strong field of 27 riders. South African riders dominated the 50cc Class but Chitsurura, a Grade Two pupil at Gateway School in Harare, was always in the mix. One of Zimbabwe’s top motocross trainers, Big “Bigs” Chitima, said the youngster has got a bright future. Next year’s FIM Africa Motocross of African Nations Championships will be hosted by Uganda.