The Herald Talent Gore Arts Correspondent
Following the death of former President Robert Mugabe on September 6, many artistes have come up with works that celebrate his life. Fine artists have joined in celebrating the life of the founding father with unique portraits and sculptors. Mazowe artisanal miner Felix Agushito (43) has paid tribute to Mugabe by crafting an artwork using beads and wire. Agushito says he created the artwork to immortalise the former president as he shall forever be remembered. “One of Africa’s giants has once again fallen. We are saddened by the unfortunate event which has robbed us of great icon and a father to Zimbabweans and Africa as a whole,” he said. Agushito added that celebrating the icon using his artistic talent was the best way he could ever express himself while paying tribute through his artwork. “Help me pay this tribute through my artwork. His work and influence will always be alive in us all until end of times for generations and myriads of days to come,” Agushito said. “Cde Mugabe did a lot for Zimbabwe, he brought us freedom and independence that is why I did an artwork of him and the Independence flame.” “I was touched by his death, so I decided to do this piece in honour of him. I actually wanted to make a bigger one but due to lack of art resources I have settled for a small piece.” Agushito has done different art pieces on African icons. “I once did on for Nelson Mandela, Thabo Mbeki, and Jacob Zuma, in 2016 I also did another one on Robert Mugabe,” he said. He said he was hoping to make a bigger artwork which will be placed at the Robert Gabriel Mugabe airport. “My dream is to create a bigger one which will be placed at the airport, such that people who will be visiting the country they will be welcomed by the artwork,” Agushito said. Another young artist Keith Ndlovu, drew a picture of the former president using a pencil only. “I wanted to create something that speaks the Robert Mugabe story. He was a great man who did great things and made lots of mistakes too,” he said. “This drawing is a tribute and my own perception of who Mugabe was, on one side I drew Mugabe from the year 1985, and then the shadow is from much later in his life.” “Many people have interpreted it in so many ways and I’m very surprised in a good way that my artwork could mean so much to different people.” There are also artists from other countries who have paid their tribute to Cde Mugabe through different forms of art.