The Herald Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter
The new dispensation will continue to fight corruption and every individual should be accountable for their actions, President Mnangagwa has said. The President said this at the National Heroes Acre yesterday during the burial of the national hero Major-General Trust Mugoba who died after a short illness at the Avenues Clinic on Friday last week. “Let us continue to fight all forms of corruption at all levels,” he said. “Every individual must be accountable for their actions, to this, there is no going back.” A number of bigwigs have since been arraigned before the courts to answer to charges relating to corruption and abuse of office. These include former Vice President Phelekhezela Mphoko, former Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Priscah Mupfumira and former permanent secretary in the ministry, Ngoni Masoka. President Mnangagwa called on all citizens to embrace unity of purpose towards a collective common good and the development of the country. He said Maj-Gen Mugoba understood the importance of hard work and centrality of economic empowerment to sustainable economic development. “As a successful cattle farmer in the Featherstone area, he played his part towards ensuring that our agrarian reform was a success,” said President Mnangagwa. The President warned individuals that are abusing the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms in a bid to foment instability in the country. “As we grieve the loss of our dear departed gallant son of the soil, we pay tribute to our defence and security forces for the freedom, peace and tranquillity that some among us take for granted,” he said. “Theirs is not an easy task of protecting the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of our great country. “Let it be known that under the Second Republic, the rule of law shall be applied without exception. “My Government will not allow the abuse of the constitutionally enshrined democratic rights and freedoms that comrades like the late Maj-Gen Mugoba fought so hard to achieve. “Acts of subversion, lawlessness, civil delinquency disguised in whatever manner will not be condoned. The law will apply without fear of favour.” President Mnangagwa’s warning follows attempts by the opposition MDC-Alliance and its allies in the civil society to mount an uprising against the Government. President Mnangagwa said Government would continue providing safety nets to vulnerable members of society. “I am aware of the current economic hardships being experienced as a result of a combination of factors such as the continued illegal sanctions, the ongoing economic reforms and drought, among other issues,” he said. “My Government will be rolling out more social safety nets to cushion the vulnerable members of our society.”