The Herald Rebecca Kabaya Arts Reporter
With the Harare International Festival of Arts (HIFA) scrapped this year, not all is lost for music lovers as the Jacaranda Music Festival has a star-studded line-up with potential to set any stage alight. Slated for Hellenic Sports Club from October 4 to 5, the fiesta will be headlined by multi award-winning band, Mokoomba, back-to-back with South African stars such as Black Motion, Ringo Madlingozi, and DJ Zinhle. The festival, which has grown from a one-day gig to two days, will this year see some workshops for artistes being added to the programme. Festival director Walter Wanyanya said the workshops help a lot of people. “But much like all forms of education whenever knowledge is given to any number of people, we will have some that take something away and some that will fail after being taught. “If we have just two or three artistes implementing these things to us; it’s well worth it,” he said. Some of the keynote speakers expected to present at the workshop include Jotam Matariro from the Composers and Authors Association from South Africa (CAPASSO) and Munyaradzi Chanetsa, the head licensing and new business at CAPASSO. “We also have Karabo Motijoane from Sheer Publishing, and Katherine McVicker from the USA and is the founder of Music Works International,” said Wanyanya. He said the workshops will cover a lot of practical issues that affect artistes. Added Wanyanya: “We will cover a lot of the back-end work that is critical in making the business of music a viable one for our artistes. “A lot of our artistes get into music as artistes because it would have started as a hobby but we want them to move away from it being just a hobby to a business that has all the makings of what one may call normal business practices.” Other issues to be discussed include the music business, artistes’ revenue streams and digital marketing and strategies on how to monetise music in the new digital age. Publishing and the importance of being a good publisher and attendant benefits, together with the management of artistes management and the roles of managers, would come under discussion.