The Herald Rumbidzayi Zinyuke Manicaland Bureau Acting President Kembo Mohadi has implored traditional leaders in Manicaland to come up with sustainable peace building and conflict resolution initiatives to ensure that Zimbabweans remain united and rooted in their cultural values. He was speaking at a peace building workshop in Mutare that was attended by more than 30 chiefs from across the province. This is the seventh peace building meeting that he has engaged chiefs on ways to maintain peace in the country. Cde Mohadi said national peace building architecture has to be built on the country’s cultural heritage. “What I have come to find out and discuss with you our traditional leaders, are cultural ways of creating and preserving peace in individuals, families, communities and the nation,” he said. “For me, building our peace on the foundation of our culture is critical to ensure that peace in the country is sustainable. We are who we are as individuals, families and communities due to our cultural norms and values which give meaning to our lives.” He said traditional leaders’ role of promoting cultural and sound family values is the foundation of peace building, adding that peace originates from the individuals. The Acting President said the presence of peace does not mean there is no conflict, but that there are cultural ways to deal with such conflicts to maintain peace within the community. “Nation builders are those people in society who take the initiative to develop the national community. As traditional leaders, you are major pillars of our nationhood as an African State. Nation building is a multi-dimensional concept and it involves the active participation of citizens in various walks of life and you, our traditional leaders are the cornerstone of the foundation of our nation building,” he said. He said the status of chiefs has to be enhanced so that they effectively play the role of nation building. He said their role of upholding and promoting cultural values of communities as well as promoting sound family values is the foundation of peace building. Cde Mohadi said the country could only achieve President Mnangagwa’s vision for a middle income economy by 2030 if chiefs play their part in nation building. Minister of State for Manicaland Dr Ellen Gwaradzimba said efforts towards peace building were commendable as they were paramount to the development of the nation.