The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
SEVERAL companies and individuals have pledged to support top female motocross rider Tanya Muzinda as she prepares to leave for the United States to compete in final races of that country’s 2019 season. The 2019 American amateur motocross season culminates in the staging of the 48th edition of the Thor Supercross and Motocross Winter Olympics in Florida in November. The annual Thor Winter Olympics are an amateur Supercross/Motocross event, otherwise known as the “Mini-O’s”, held at Gatorback Cycle Park in Alachua, Florida. It has a long-standing tradition of being yet another springboard for amateur riders from all over the world to hone their skills. This year’s “Mini-O’s” are scheduled to be held from November 24 to 30 and 14-year-old Muzinda, the postergirl of Zimbabwean motocross, has once again been invited to take part in this major international motorcycling jamboree. Muzinda is first expected to race in a number of races in the United States before she heads to Florida for the “Mini O’s.” Her handlers recently indicated they needed to raise about US$150 000 for the whole trip to the USA.
And last Thursday night they held a fund-raising cocktail party at Zimparks Gardens in Harare where the Minister of Primary and Secondary Education, Professor Paul Mavima, was the guest of honour. The event was graced by a number of prominent people, who included several captains of the industry, and they all pledged to bankroll Muzinda’s trip to the United States in November. And among the corporates and individuals who came on board and rendered their support to Muzinda are Delta Beverages, Destiny for Africa, Traverz Travel Agency, Nyaradzo Group, Faramatsi, Four Faces, Cassava, Roadport, NetOne, the Mayor of Harare Herbert Gomba, Tinmac, Lighthouse and Delight Energy. All these companies and individuals pledged cash and equipment towards Muzinda’s cause.
“The support we have received from both the corporates and individuals for Tanya’s trip to the United States has been quite tremendous and we are just hoping and praying that all the pledges will be fulfilled on time so that she leaves the country well ahead of her participation in the Mini O’s,” Muzinda’s handlers said yesterday.