The Herald Albert Marufu in LONDON, England
ZIMBABWE-BORN British athlete Sean Mhende claimed a gold and a silver medal at the UK Youth Development League at the Regionals Sports Arena Sports City in Manchester last weekend. Mhende, one of the brightest prospects in track and field events (sprints and triple jump), won a gold medal in triple jump and helped his Birchfield Harriers Under-20 relay team to a silver medal. Mhende, who was participating under the banner of Birchfield Harriers, out-jumped his previous record of 13.5m to set a new personal best of 13.95m in triple jump. The feat saw him not only clinching a gold medal, in the Under-20 division, but climbing nine places up the national Under-20 rankings to position 18. Mhende, who was born in Zimbabwe but came to England when he was one-year-seven months old, was also at the podium when his relay team claimed a silver medal at the same event. The Upper Six student’s profile has been growing in leaps and bounds after he was nominated for the Zimbabwe Young Achievers Awards UK. He told The Saturday Herald the future can only be bright. “I am happy with my achievements so far and my target is to compete at the highest level. “I see myself getting better and stronger,” said Mhende, who last year earned a call up to the England Midlands Under-20 team. His mother, Ennie Mhende, was equally ecstatic of her child’s progress. “He is doing very well and it is not easy for him as he also has to balance sport and his studies as well. His hero is Christian Taylor. It was not easy for him as he suffered hamstring injuries. “He wants to be a professional triple jumper. We just have to support him, but it has not been easy. His headteacher, David Lloyd, at Solihull School called to congratulate him,” she said. His school, Solihull School, also took to Facebook to express their appreciation for the young man’s achievements. “Upper Six student Sean Mhende participated in the Youth Development League (YDL) finals as part of the Birchfield Harriers Under-20 Men’s Triple Jump. “An amazing new personal best of 13.96m saw him win gold and become one of the top 20 triple jumpers in the country,” wrote the school.