The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter MARSHAL MUNETSI, the outstanding Warrior in the victory over Somalia on Tuesday, pleaded with caretaker coach Joey Antipas to pull him out as he was not feeling well. However, minutes later, he broke the deadlock for the Warriors with a spectacular overhead kick. “I wasn’t feeling well for the past two days so my fitness was not up there because I was also having an injury,’’ he said. “I told the coaches that I might give them about 45–60 minutes. “I had requested to be taken out but I give credit to the coach because he maintained that I should stay in there because we could score a goal.’’ He said opponents like Somalia are tough teams to play against. “It’s not easy when playing against a team that is stubborn. I don’t think they deserve to be down where they are,’’ he said. “They are good tactically and they have a good coach. “Even the team is doing well. It was unlucky for them and we worked hard for it. “We knew that they had nothing to lose. “Even when they were playing they were saying it. So it’s good we won. It’s part of the game. Sometimes you have to grind out the results.” Antipas said he expected the authorities to ensure that more players, especially those still battling to regularise their citizenship, to be available for future assignments. ZIFA could work on that now, especially after getting a reprieve from the Sports Commission. “Today (Tuesday) the SRC Board & Mngt (management) met with a FIFA delegation comprising Messrs Solomon Mudege and David Fani in the company of ZIFA president (Felton Kamambo) and General Secretary (Joseph Mamutse),’’ the SRC said on their Twitter account. “The delegation is on a mission to assist ZIFA deal with its legacy debt by engaging key stakeholders & creditors. “SRC expressed its readiness to work with FIFA and to also assist ZIFA to fulfil its mandate while ZIFA pledged to comply with the local sport statues under the guidance of the SRC.’’ There had been fears that boardroom issues could distract ZIFA leaders from the forthcoming AFCON qualifiers in November. But, it appears, there is a window of hope on that front. ZIFA would be expected to let the coach choose the players he wants to work with rather than blacklist some of the Warriors.