The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
THE Sports Commission have engaged the police to investigate ZIFA over alleged misappropriation of public funds. The investigation covers the period from December last year to now. Prince Mupazviriho, the Sports Commission director-general, wrote to the ZRP seeking their assistance in compelling ZIFA to release the information which the regulatory body first demanded in July. It is the Commission’s belief there has been misappropriation of public funds at ZIFA. The football leaders, though, deny that. Mupazviriho wrote a letter to the Deputy Director Commercial Crimes Division in the Criminal Investigations Department. “As indicated in our letter to yourselves, dated 10 July 2019, we now wish to formally request the urgent assistance of the Zimbabwe Republic Police to carry out investigations at ZIFA, and any related third parties, in respect of conduct of a criminal nature involving public funds availed to ZIFA by the SRC and Government,’’ Mupazviriho wrote. “In particular, we wish that the investigations focus on the following matters of grave concern to the SRC as set out in the letter of July 3. “Key to this issue is the use of public funds received by ZIFA and, or, any of its officials as well as involvement of a company called Conduit Holdings in appearing to obstruct the course of justice by frustrating the Order of the High Court of Zimbabwe. “The SRC stands by to assist should you require further information.’’ In his first letter addressed to ZIFA chief executive, Joseph Mamutse, Mupazviriho said they were “acutely aware of the controversies surrounding the Warriors’ AFCON campaign which ended in embarrassing fashion on June 30 following a 4-0 humiliation by DRC. “These controversies give rise to a prima facie case of gross impotence on the part of ZIFA, such conduct and/or omissions appearing consistent with Section 30 (i) (c) of the SRC Act regarding conduct by ZIFA in a manner which is contrary to the nation’s interest. “In terms of the said Section 30, the SRC board have directed that ZIFA avail it the following detailed information on or before close of business Friday 12 July, 2019: “Only when all this information has been provided will the SRC consider Zifa’s request for a meeting”.