The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZRP Mambas coach Talent Museka has demanded more from his team after they were forced to dig deep to beat Goldreef Queens in a Rainbow Amateur Netball League match at Morris Depot yesterday. Mambas defeated Goldreef 46-36 in a match they had to come from behind to overcome the visitors who gave them a tough time after taking 10-8 lead in the first quarter. Museka had to bring in seasoned shooter Pauline Jani for Sabina Gwekwe in the second quarter to strengthen his attack and by half-time Goldreef were 23-22 ahead. The police side turned on the show after half time as they netted 12 goals while restricting their opponents to four in the third quarter. This saw them turning the tables in their favour and were leading 34-27. “We won, I am happy but not very happy because first quarter we were down, half-time we were down,’’ said Museka. “We tried to adjust the team and it worked well in our favour. But I don’t think we played very well. “We made a lot of mistakes and I think if we continue doing this thing it’s going to cost us in the next games. “The thing is we are using some of the players who have injuries. We are just trying to make them play because we do not have an option.’’ Goldreef put on some good defensive work, led by goalkeeper Sinethemba Ncube, who was named Player of the Match. Mambas’ Jani got the golden hand after scoring 36 goals. Goldreef coach Samuel Riyano said his side was making good progress. “I am really pleased because my girls showed character. They showed that fighting spirit and they really wanted to win,’’ said Riyano. “It was just unfortunate that we lost it in the third quarter . . . But, as you can see, my team is a young team. I think average age is 20, so I am happy with the way they played.’’ After their match against Mambas, Goldreef proceeded to Kadoma where they went on to beat Rio Zim 44-26 in their second match of the day. And Ncube was again named Player of the Match. In another match played yesterday Tenax lost 39-49 to Ngezi at Mutare Farm Prison. Fixtures Today: Golden Valley v Glow Petroleum (Golden Valley 1pm). 