The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
CAPS United defender Lincoln Zvasiya is eager to make a fresh start and help the club win the league title after completing a surprise switch to the Green Machine. The defender won the South African Premiership league title and the Nedbank Cup with Kaizer Chiefs in the 2012-2013 season. But, since returning home in 2015, he has faded from the limelight and attracted headlines for all the wrong reasons. Two years ago, the 28-year-old was one of the players expelled from Dynamos for indiscipline. The other was Denver Mukamba. “I have reformed. I know a lot has happened in the past, but honestly, it would be unfair for me to keep pointing it out every time,’’ he said. “The past is now buried in the past, and I should be judged by what I am doing now. “I have never won a league title or a cup with a Zimbabwean club. “So, it would be good to win at least one cup with CAPS United and play in the Champions League. “I have never played in the African safari. “That would be really good for my career.’’ Zvasiya didn’t have a club since the season began, after having last featured for Yadah Stars briefly last season. “I have been training with CAPS United for some time now, and they finally decided to sign me this week,’’ he said. “I still have the touch and I would like to thank the coaches and teammates for giving me an opportunity. “I believe CAPS United is the best team in the league at the moment, with quality players who are competitive and have a strong fighting spirit. “I am happy to join the club which is challenging for honours.’’ Zvasiya is likely to be thrust into action at Rufaro this afternoon when the Green Machine take on Harare City with a chance to go top of the table if they win. Their opponents are under the guidance of former CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe. Makepekepe coach Darlington Dodo is preparing for a tough duel. “Harare City are an ambitious side under a high-profile coach who was my boss just a few weeks ago,’’ said Dodo. “They have vastly-improved, this is a derby and the better team will win. “The break we had afforded us a chance to work on some areas which we badly needed to rectify. “It also afforded us an opportunity for our injured players to recuperate.’’