The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo It is well known that the Rio Carnival held in Brazil, is probably one of the most famous festivals around the world. It is the biggest carnival in the world, with over two million people a day on the streets. For a week leading up to fete, Rio erupts with colourful parades, parties, and open-air performances and every neighbourhood. In Zimbabwe, the phenomenon was brought up by the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority some years ago when the Harare International Carnival was launched with guests and performers coming from Brazil, Puerto Rico, South Africa and Mozambique among others. The event was a great celebration and many people still have good memories of the carnival that lit the streets of Harare with amazing colours. Although the festival is currently on hold, many other events have taken the shape of the massive festivities that always make Harare a hive of activity. One such event is the annual fete dubbed “Zimstock Goes Carnival” that takes place at Hellenic Primary School today. The colourful event, which is in its sixth year running has been characterised as a family day and will see a lot of activities which include musical festival, food and fashion expo with some great amazing prizes to be won. Hosted by the school itself, the festival was created to give local artists a platform to showcase their music talent and celebrate the music and cultural diversity in Zimbabwe. The Herald on Saturday Lifestyle caught up with festival publicist, Sibusisiwe Dube who said all roads today lead to the primary school where the stage has been set for a big day. “It is a family day, with children from different schools getting to meet and mingle. We call it ‘Zimstock’ because it’s only local artists who are billed to perform and sell their wares. It is our stock only. Some of the artists who are scheduled to perform include Ammara Brown, Evicted, Shy Eden, Magnetic Force, Flash Mob, ProBeatz and Rob Burrel among others. It is summer time and this is the right time to host such feast. It is going to be fun and edutainment at the same time as it gives platform for people to showcase their wares,” she said. Dube said there will be displays from magicians and carnival games will light up the festival.