The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
HARARE Athletics Board chairman, Sebastian Garikai, says everything is in place for this year’s Old Mutual Westgate half-marathon in Harare tomorrow. The 21km race has become one of the major road races in the country and has continued to grow over the years. It now features some of the best athletes on the local scene. Apart from the half-marathon, which is the main event, there is also the 10km race and a 5km fun run on offer, presenting an opportunity to aspiring young athletes to compete. The winners in the main race, both men and women, will get $5 000 each following adjustments made by the sponsors from last year’s $3 000. The second and third-placed runners will get $4 000 and $3 000. Garikai said they were looking at attracting about 1 300 participants for this year’s edition and 550 of them are expected to take part in 21km.  “We are going to do a dry run on Saturday (today) before the event so that everyone at the event knows what is to be done so that there won’t be any challenges.  ‘‘This year we are running a new altered route, so we are expecting a new record as it’s a new route. Rutendo Nyahora and Canisious Nyamutsita are the defending champions for the women’s and men’s section. Nyahora might now defend her title since she is in the final phase of her preparations for the World Championships in South Africa. The World Championships are scheduled to run from September 27 to October 6 in Doha, Qatar. “I don’t think I will be attending the Westgate half-marathon this year due to Doha preparations.   My preparations are going well for the World Championships. I am working on endurance, strength and speed. “I am expecting more for myself and country, I am just praying that I stay injury free,” said Nyahora.  However, Nyamutsita is looking forward to competing tomorrow but said it’s going to be tricky since he has been having problems with his back. “I have been training but it’s very hard for me because I have been having problems with my back.  ‘‘I had hoped to qualify for the Olympics but I couldn’t because of that. So, now, I am looking into the future because for this year I am now left with a few races,” said Nyamutsita.