The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZDF Queens coach Joel Sibanda is pleased with his side’s consistency after they beat Beta Queens 53-39 at Harare Metropolitan Police yesterday in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League. Although both teams had a slow start, on a slippery court after a light drizzle, ZDF took a 14-7 and 15-12 lead in the first and second quarter. The attacking pair of goal shooter Mercy Mukwadi and goal attack Caroline Matura had a good game as they led their team to victory. Mukwadi was part of the Zimbabwe senior team at this year’s Netball World Cup in Liverpool, England, in July but she did not feature for the Gems during the tournament. “I just want to give credit to my girls. They really played well even though the weather affected us at some point because the court was now slippery. “They started on a slow pace but, at least, they tried to adjust to the conditions and we played well. “I want to thank them for a job well done,” said Sibanda. Despite some resistance from Beta Queens, and some good defending by Julie Banda and Prudence Goreraza, ZDF proved the better team. ZDF went into half-time leading 28-19. They were 43-27 up by the end of the third quarter. Beta Queens coach, Philemon Mangwiro, conceded defeat but expressed disappointment with the officiating. “We started the game well but the court was slippery, it was raining, we had a disadvantage as our players had shoes which were not suitable for the conditions. “I think that’s why we lost the game. But, as the game progressed, we adjusted to the situation on the ground, we played well, they were just good and better than us but we tried our best. “They played a physical game, it’s a plus for them and we went back into the shell and we couldn’t play our own game. “But, as the second and third quarter progressed, we adjusted and we played well,” said Mangwiro. For her 48 goals Mukwadi got the golden hand while Beta Queens’ goal attack Irene Mugabe was awarded player of the match. The match between ZRP Mambas Queens and Ngezi Platinum that was also scheduled for yesterday was cancelled.