The Herald Sports Reporter
TEAM Zimbabwe UK chief executive Marshal Gore says he hopes the tour to this country by the Diaspora team will pave way for bigger things which will help in promoting local football abroad. The team, featuring Under-23 players, is scheduled to arrive in the country tomorrow ahead of a series of friendly matches that have been lined up. The tour runs from May 1 to 13. And Gore, who is also the head of delegation and has been assisting ZIFA in engaging with Zimbabweans playing professional football in Europe, arrived as part of the advance team. Team Zimbabwe UK is expected in the country for a series of friendly matches with local teams. Gore was bullish that the tour, the first of its kind, will pave the way for a working relationship between local teams and the Diaspora team. The team is expected to play with some local Premier Soccer League clubs and some junior teams starting this weekend. All the matches and the programme will be finalised tomorrow. “We have support of ZIFA. We have also been in touch with the PSL, who have commended us for putting Zimbabwe on the map,’’ said Gore. “We will have some meetings on the direction the Diaspora team intends to have regarding our local football. “Next stage, we are looking at inviting teams to come and feature in tournaments in Europe, so it a two-way process about promoting local talent. “We want to promote Zimbabwean football abroad using some partnerships we have with professional clubs there and assist our local coaches as well.’’ He said they had cast their net wide. “We intend to make this an annual event, which means those that didn’t manage to come will get an opportunity to come. We are open to everyone, were not only working with guys from UK, but other places, Australia and America. “We have Vitalis Takawira’s son, he was playing in Sweden, Vitalis saw the message, and he got in touch and said he wanted his son to be involved in this and paid for the air tickets and everything. “This is the beginning of bigger things to come, we are starting, but we are ready to play.’’  Delegation Team: Muziwandile Nduna, Tinashe Gwavava, Chad Abrams, Arnold Chaponda, Sean Muchenje, Shingi Masocha, Bailey Abrams, Godwill Moraka, Prince Mutswanguma, Craig Chirata, Wilson Chingoka, Jean Pierre Parracho, Arnold Ndiweni, Christchurch Mutsigwa, Vitalis Takawira, Ericson Mukambi. Technical team: Marshal Gore (head of delegation), Trevor Mazhande (head coach), Kennedy Chihuri (technical director), Thomas Thomike (administrator), Farai Muchunguma (tour manager).