The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
After 18 years in the trenches of professional football, former Zimbabwe international Edward Sadamba is a happy man. The veteran forward called time on his lengthy and successful career on Wednesday this week to concentrate on his businesses and charity work through his Edward Sadomba Foundation. The 36-year-old is now planning to put the icing on the cake by hosting a testimonial match early next year where he hopes to invite his former teammates from across the continent for “a proper farewell”. This has been an enjoyable ride that took him from Mbare to South Africa, Sudan, Libya and to some big money deals in the oil-rich United Arab Emirates. Sadomba, who has invested in mining, construction, civil engineering and farming, will now get down full-time to his business pursuits. “I thank God for everything that He has done for me,’’ said Sadomba. “Maybe, in future I will consider football administration, but coaching is a big no for me, although I still commit myself to be involved in anything to do with football development. “For the time being, I will go full-time into my business. I also intend to focus more on the Edward Sadomba Foundation for the less privileged and the elderly.’’ The former Zimbabwe international leaves behind a trail of records in continental football where he ranks among the most prolific players in CAF competitions. Sadomba was twice nominated among the 10 best players in Africa. He is ranked seventh on the CAF Champions League all-time top goal scorers’ chats with his 18 goals from 43 appearances for three clubs across six seasons. Sadomba played Champions League football with Dynamos and reached the 2008 semi-finals and then with Sudanese giant Al Hilal and Al Ahli Benghazi of Libya. Unofficial statistics also show that he lies in fourth place in the top scorer’s chats in both the CAF Champions League and the Confederation Cup with 33 goals in the bag. Fittingly, he had to end his career at Dynamos, the club that has been lodged at the bottom of his heart since his childhood. It was also at DeMbare where he first won his first Premiership title in 2007 after surviving a career-threatening injury he suffered the previous year in South Africa. “I count myself to be a miracle, that is why I always mention God every time I talk about my career. “It should have just ended in 2005 after I suffered a horrible injury. I landed badly on a muddy pitch and twisted my ankle ligaments. It was so bad that it needed an operation. “After spending about four to six months on the sidelines, we agreed with the club management to terminate the contract. “But I saw the power of God. I healed quicker than anticipated and instead of slowing down, it acted as if it actually fuelled me to perform even better. “That is how I came back here and joined Dynamos,” Sadomba. Surprisingly, he has a lasting crash for Highlanders supporters. “I am Dynamos through and through, but I like the Highlanders supporters. Without taking anything away from our own fans, Highlanders supporters are very passionate about football. It was a privilege playing against Highlanders.” Born and bred in Mbare, Sadomba began his football at Shingirai Primary school where he scooped several awards and then honed his skills at Harare High School. The pacy forward was spotted by Mike Madzivanyika, who brought him to Regis Dzenga’s Agatha Sheneti Football Academy back in 2000. He played in the same age group with former DeMbare teammate Benjamin Marere, Onismor Bhasera and the Mubaiwa twins Peter and Patrick. Having lost his father at three years, Sadomba found himself as the breadwinner by the age 16 when he was playing for Harare United in Division One. “It was very difficult growing up in a set-up where our father had died leaving behind six children — four girls and two boys. But I want to applaud my mother, she was there for us. “She played a big role in my career. Academically, I was good, but I discovered that football was my life, it was the only way out for me and my family. “So, I decided to pursue it and by the age 16, I had graduated from Agatha Sheneti to join their Division One side Harare United. “That’s when I started looking after my family from my own meagre earnings. I know the hustles, that is why I am so passionate about the foundation,” said Sadomba. Now a father of four, Sadomba is forever grateful to his wife Sherlynn. His sons Elshaddai (10) and Adonai (8) are following in his footsteps at St John’s Preparatory School in Harare. Sadomba and Sherlynn have four children. The youngest are Elohim (4) and two-year old Nissi. “All these, years Sherlynn has been working hard to try and make sure that I succeed in my career. She even sacrificed her career as a lawyer for me,’’ he said. “She only started practising this year. Also, the family has been moving from one place to another and it hasn’t been easy.’’