The Herald Sports Reporter
TELONE forward King Nadolo added to his dream comeback story when he was voted the Footballers Union Player of the Month for November. The accolade comes barely a week after the 24-year-old was crowned among the country’s Soccer Star of the Year finalists. Nadolo, who had left domestic football to join the lower rungs of South African leagues, returned during the mid-season and immediately made an impact. Although he played half the season, his statistics have been impressive and were enough to land him a place among the league’s best 11 players. And, yesterday, he added a feather to his cap after he was handed the FUZ Zororo-Phumulani Player of the Month following a fine month when he scored in almost every match. “I am at a loss of words. All I can say is that I am humbled by the accolades that I have received,’’ he said. “I am grateful to the players who voted in the FUZ poll because it’s not every time that the people you play against recognise your success. “But, I must also say last month was one of my best. I managed to score a goal in almost every game and we did well as a team. “At the end of the day it’s all about the team. I have to make sure that I contribute something positive to help the team.’’ Nadolo has grabbed 11 goals after joining TelOne during the mid-season and also providing a couple of assists for Rahman Gumbo’s side. However, the forward may have to hold back his celebrations until end of day tomorrow as his side are yet to confirm their survival going into the decisive last round of matches of the season. TelOne and five other clubs are still engaged in the fight for survival in the complex relegation matrix. Only two teams, Hwange and Mushowani, have been demoted. Yadah and Herentals currently occupy the two slots in the drop zone on identical 38 points. They still have chances of surviving the chop at the expense of Chapungu (39), Harare City (40), TelOne (40) and Bulawayo Chiefs (41). The pick of the relegation dogfight on the last day pits Bulawayo Chiefs and Herentals at Luveve. Yadah travel to relegated Mushowani while Harare City host Ngezi Platinum Stars.