The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor
WHATEVER happens today, Sydney Linyama says he will have a reason to be happy.
After all, he claims, he has finally seen the light and the beauty of living life the right way. After years of roaming in the wilderness, in which his indiscipline and bad boy image meant a career that promised so much delivered very little, the gangly centreback says he is now a transformed man. And, at 27 with two twin daughters to take care of, he might have realised his mistakes at just the right time to salvage what remains of a football career that has flirted between the good, the bad and the very ugly. “I have seen the miracles that God can do in your life, if you believe, and that has been the game-changer for me,’’ Linyama told The Saturday Herald. “I have made some mistakes, very big mistakes, in my life and when I look back, I have too many regrets because there are things that I should have done better and, maybe, I would not be here today but playing professional football somewhere outside the country. “It’s unfortunate you can’t rewind life because, when I think about it, there are a lot of things that I would have done differently in my life and that would have made me a better person and a better footballer. “I have never doubted my talent, the problem is that I didn’t do the things that one should do to ensure you benefit a lot from your talent and you become the footballer that you should be.’’ At times, as he speaks, it’s hard to believe him.
A bad boy crafted over years, in which he appeared to derive joy in being the pantomime villain, saw him being dismissed at Dynamos after going AWOL a number of times, slip into Division One football, become a nuisance there, emerge somewhere in the DRC before returning home. But, as he spoke yesterday, it was also difficult, listening to him, especially when his voice cracked under emotion, he meant every word that was coming out of his mouth. Dripping in sweat, he had just put in more than four hours of hard work in training, on a difficult slippery pitch and, for some of us who have known him for some time now this – alone – was a signal of progress. Sydney Linyama, on a training field, working so hard this late into the season with just one game to go, and about two weeks before Christmas, was something that was alien to him in the past. He would have long disappeared into the warm arms of his neighbourhood gangs where, whatever they did there only them can tell, he appeared to find a lot of comfort. It didn’t matter, as was the case in 2014, he was part of a Glamour Boys team about to win a fourth straight league championship on the spin under Callisto Pasuwa. “Sydney has gone AWOL again,’’ Pasuwa thundered back then ahead of a decisive league match against Buffaloes.
“I think this youngster is a problem. We had thought that, with his coming back (from injury), we had cover in defence but, again, his problems are numerous. “You never know if he is really serious with football.
“Having been called to the national team recently he should show that he is a professional player but until now he has not changed his attitude.” That attitude, said Linyama yesterday, has changed.
Why or how?
“It came to a point in my life when I needed a new direction,’’ he said. “After I returned from DRC this year, and I heard Yadah were interested in my services, I felt that was the perfect opportunity. “I felt I needed a club where I would be taught more than just football, where I would get what is called spiritual healing because there was a lot that was troubling me, and that’s what I have got here. “Somehow, I feel like a new man, the confidence is back, my family is now settled, all those demons that were pulling me away from football are gone and I am enjoying this game a lot.’’ The results are there for everyone to see – in the last five days, Linyama has led a Yadah defence that has conceded just two goals, all of them coming against CAPS United, while they have won four and lost just one match. Of course, it could all end up in tears today, if Yadah lose against Mushowani Stars or they win and other results don’t go in their favour, with the club being relegated. But, whatever happens today, says Linyama, he has seen the light and he credits Prophet Walter Magaya for that and, for him, nothing will ever be the same again.