The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
PARTICIPANTS in the inaugural Chipayi Women’s 5km road race held over the weekend in Highfield have expressed gratitude for the platform presented by the event to promote women’s participation in sport. The race was organised by Lindiwe Chipayi together with the Harare Athletics Board in a move aimed at encouraging more women to take part in sport. The Open Women race was won by Miriam Sibanda in 16minutes 37seconds, followed by Rudo Mhonderwa, who crossed the finish line in 17minutes 58 seconds. Both athletes are from PowerHouse Athletics Club run by veteran long-distance runner Tabitha Tsatsa. On third place was Dadirai Gwenzi in 19minutes 50seconds. Sibanda said the race was an opportunity to inspire fellow women to take part in sport. “The race was okay, not very tough though. But it was good in that as women we realised that we can promote each other in sport, encourage each other to take part in sport. “We would love to have more of these races. It’s not just about competing but promoting healthy lifestyles amongst ourselves as women,” said Sibanda. Mhonderwa said it was an eye-opener for many women who came to compete. “This was something positive for us as women. It was the first time to run a women’s race in Zimbabwe, we didn’t have these races before. It empowers us as upcoming and young athletes. “I was also excited that many women came for the race and we had elderly women taking part. We had a good time, networking and sharing ideas. Some women didn’t know that running is good for their health and relieving stress. “Apart from the benefits on the health side, sport can create employment not just for athletes but in different areas such as kit production and equipment,” said Mhonderwa. Melody Chikonzi claimed the juniors category in 19minutes 15seconds and Tsatsa emerged the winner in the mistresses section in 20minutes 51seconds. Chipayi was content with the turnout for the event. “The event went well. The turnout was good, we had registered about 173 participants but 143 actually participated which was good. “We had not expected such a positive response and I think if we had more time to advertise the race we could have had more people coming. It was good considering it was the first time. “It was really interesting and we had a good time. We are hoping we will have more of these races in the future,” said Chipayi. HAB secretary-general Sledge Chinyoka, who prior to the race said they are taking a deliberate move to promote women in athletics as the numbers have been declining over the years, said there is room for bigger races in the future. “This was the first time to have a race in the high-density suburbs of Harare in a long time. The community was really intrigued and in the future I believe the turnout is definitely going to be higher as more women are going to participate,” said Chinyoka.