The Herald Panashe Chikonyora Business Reporter
Zimbabwe Stock Exchange-listed seed processor, Seed Co, has donated seed and mealie meal to its partnered institutions as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility policy. Speaking at the handover ceremony to Mutemwa Leprosy Centre, Mother of Peace, Mashambanzou Care Trust and Jairos Jiri Home, Seed Co Group Public Relations and Communications manager, Ms Marjorie Mutemererwa said the seed processor values giving back to the less privileged. “We have over the years adopted various strategies in an effort to bridge the gap between those who have more and those who have less. Our CSR activities are based on merit and need,” said Ms Mutemererwa. “Our approach as CSR has been to focus on promoting health and wellness, education, sports and culture and also agriculture. “All our efforts are to ensure that there is food security in the country. Hence, we continue to stand on our mission statement to seed, feed and lead Zimbabwe, Africa and beyond,” she said. Ms Mutemererwa said the programme also supports education and sports. She said they pay school fees for students from primary to tertiary institutions, and over the years the main schools that have been benefiting include St Marnocks Primary and Secondary schools. “ . . . we also have students that have graduated studying engineering and others that are currently studying medicine,” she added. Meanwhile, different representatives from the institutions hailed the seed company’s donations saying that they are more than just gifts, but solutions to a lot of suffering people. “It is one of its kind a gesture to give back to the society. “It is an act which will help a lot of people not only at the Mashambabnzou Care Trust, but also people living with HIV and AIDS at the Mashambanzou Care Unit (Mashambanzou Palliative Clinic), vulnerable children and vulnerable members of society who are suffering due to poverty,” Mashambanzou Care Trust, Monitoring and Evaluations Officer, Casper Hera said. Seed Co has over the years partnered with various educational and social institutions as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility.