The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
IT’S not often that a Premiership race gets such a climax the contenders meet on the final day of the marathon in a winner-take-all scenario. That was the case when FC Platinum battled CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium on Saturday. Of course, the Zvishavane side eventually prevailed and retained the championship for the third season running. And, the Government have added their voice, showering praise on all the 18 clubs after a season which never, at any point, was predictable. Youth, Arts, Sport and Recreation Deputy Minister, Tino Machakaire, yesterday said the country’s sport needed to be that competitive for it to build its powerful brand. “That is exactly what we need in every sport code in the country. Close competition brings value to the whole product,” said Machakaire. Not only was the Premiership crown decided on the last day of the race but six teams were also facing the chop on that dramatic last day of action. The Midlands duo of TelOne and Chapungu failed the last examination as they waved goodbye to the top-flight league. “We have been closely following the proceedings in the top-flight, the competition has been massive,’’ Machakaire said. “It has been unique at the top as the leading teams had to clash right in the last game to determine the winner. “It was like a cup final, a winner-take-all scenario. “Football fans and other sport-loving people were attracted to the fixture which is a good advertisement of the game in the country and even beyond. “It is not every day that such a scenario is found in any league. Kudos to our teams. “It was also the same in the relegation battle. No team could drop easily. The competition was encouraging. We need that in our sport.’’ The survival battle was particularly nerve-wrecking. For the better part of the season, Bulawayo Chiefs and Yadah were almost certain to be relegated with Chapungu rarely mentioned in the equation. But, both the Bulawayo side and the Yadah picked fine form towards the end of the season and survived. Harare City and Herentals were also never safe, throughout the season, but the pair somehow escaped the axe which fell on the duo of Chapungu and TelOne.