The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
THE domestic Premiership swings back into life, after a two-week break, with leaders CAPS United and defending champions FC Platinum bracing for a potential Super Saturday blockbuster expected to decide the race. This is a decisive week, not only for Makepekepe and the Zvishavane platinum miners, but also for the six clubs involved in the relegation dogfight. CAPS take on Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab while FC Platinum host Black Rhinos at Mandava tomorrow. Baobab has never been a good hunting ground for Makepekepe where they are yet to win a league match since the Mhondoro side was promoted in 2016. Ngezi beat CAPS United 2-1 at the National Sports Stadium earlier this year with Donald Teguru and Tichaona Mabvura on target. But the stakes are higher now.
The two leaders will then clash on Super Saturday with many convinced that’s when the championship will be decided.
Chicken Inn still have remote chances although they have to hope both leaders lose tomorrow and then draw the final game while they win tomorrow against Herentals and then on Saturday against TelOne at Barbourfields. The relegation dogfight is also expected to dominate the duels as six teams — Yadah, Harare City, Bulawayo Chiefs, Herentals, TelOne and Chapungu — will be battling for survival. Yadah will get the ball rolling this afternoon with a home date against Triangle at Rufaro.
The rest of the teams will play tomorrow after the league decided to align all the matches. The outlook for Harare City, who play Dynamos at the same venue tomorrow, is not encouraging and Lloyd Chitembwe’s men need maximum points to enhance their chances of surviving the chop. Fixtures
Today: Yadah v Triangle United (Rufaro)
Tomorrow
Highlanders v Bulawayo Chiefs (Barbourfields)
Manica Diamonds v Chapungu (Vengere)
FC Platinum v Black Rhinos (Mandava)
Ngezi Platinum v CAPS United (Baobab)
Dynamos v Harare City (Rufaro)
ZPC Kariba v Mushowani Stars (Nyamhunga)
Tel One v Hwange (Ascot)
Herentals v Chicken Inn (NSS)
Match Day 34
Saturday: Bulawayo Chiefs v Herentals (Luveve)
Chicken Inn v TelOne (Barbiourfields)
Hwange v ZPC Kariba (Colliery)
Mushowani Stars v Yadah (Trojan)
Triangle United v Dynamos (Gibbo)
Harare City v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Rufaro)
CAPS United v FC Platinum (Mandava)
Chapungu v Highlanders (Ascot)
Sunday: Black Rhinos v Manica Diamonds (NSS)