The Herald Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWEAN David Moyo was the toast of the day for his club Hamilton when he inspired the Scottish Premiership side to a rare away win with his first league goal at the weekend. Moyo was named Man of the Match by BBC Sport in the 2-1 win over Motherwell in the Lanarkshire derby. The 25-year-old Zimbabwean striker walked off the pitch to a standing ovation following a blistering second half performance which saw Hamilton coming back from one goal down to take home three points. Christopher Long had the high-flying hosts ahead early on as they attempted to consolidate third spot. However, a deserved second-half double from Aaron McGowan and Moyo delivered Accies’ first Lanarkshire derby win since August 2018. Hamilton coach Brian Rice was full of praise for his team and reserved special mention to the Zimbabwean. “I don’t think anyone in the stadium could question that we deserved to win the game. It was a team performance but I’m absolutely delighted for David Moyo. “I went down to England to watch a game when he was playing as a trialist for Chorley. I liked what I saw and thought I’d give him a wee chance. “He can head the ball, he can jump and he can work. He scored a magnificent header,” said Rice. According to the BBC, Moyo’s performance deserved Man of the Match award. “The Zimbabwean characterised this entire Accies performance. The 25-year-old was a constant pest for the Motherwell defence and arguably could have done better when an early chance broke his way not long after his team fell 1-0 behind. “However, he was tormentor-in-chief during an inspired second half that had Motherwell on the back foot for its entirety. His stunning header the reward he and his team-mates deserved. It has taken the former St Albans man 13 games to get his first goal. He won’t forget it in a hurry,” reported the BBC. It was a vital victory for Rice’s men who had one just one of their previous 14 games as it lifted them five points clear of bottom side, Hearts. Hamilton end the year on 11th place with 18 points in the 12-team league. The Zimbabwean front-man Moyo was playing in the sixth tier of English football with St Albans City just a few months ago and caught the eye of Hamilton boss Rice while on trial for Chorley in the summer. Fast forward six months and the summer signing was a colossus for Hamilton as they fought back to stun Motherwell in a frenetic Fir Park derby and head into the winter break with a five-point cushion on Hearts at the bottom. A goal, an assist and an all-round man of the match display meant Moyo was going home the hero — and with the praise of boss Rice ringing in his ears. The Zimbabwean left the park to a standing ovation soon after as Rice shored things up by introducing Blair Alston after 79 minutes. Moyo arrived from English non-league football in the summer and he believes the experience can be a platform to progress. In an earlier interview, he told the Scottish media that his move was a step up for bigger things. “Obviously it was a massive step up for me, compared to the levels I have played before. It’s where I want to be and hopefully I keep progressing from there. “Inside the dressing room there is a belief we can achieve things here. “There were a lot of positives we can take from the game and if we do that we should have no problem kicking on and being a real threat in this league. It gives us a good foundation to build on for the games coming up” he said in an interview with the UK’s Sportsmole. The forward started his career at Northampton before playing for Brackley Town, Hemel Hempstead Town and St Albans, two levels below the Sky Bet Football League. On his time at Hamilton, he said: “I think I have improved a lot as a player and hopefully I just keep getting better and better. “The first thing I had to improve was my fitness because when you stop training every day, you lose half a yard, and when you come here everything is 100 miles per hour and you have to catch up. “It took me by surprise how intense it is in training, the tackles, and how fast it is. You just have to adjust and get used to it.”