The Herald Kundai Marunya and Tedious Manyepo
The usually sleepy Goneso Village in Hwedza will on Christmas Day be livened up by dance and music when some of Zimbabwe’s top musicians take part in a massive gig. The event has become an annual celebration hosted by Hwedza South Member of Parliament Tino Machakaire.
Top musicians Alick Macheso and Jah Prayzah are expected to headline this year’s event. Machakaire, who is the Deputy Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, runs the event through TinMac Foundation.
Also on the line-up is man-of-the-moment, Mambo Dhuterere, whose music has taken showbiz by storm. Other musicians billed to perform include Selmor Mtukudzi, Freeman, Hwinza, Andy Muridzo, Mathias Mhere, Killer T and Sulumani Chimbetu. Machakaire said the show was an annual platform that gives rural folks a chance to dance with their stars.
“Musicians seldom play in villages , concentrating in urban centres where revellers have money for entrance fees and beverages at the shows,” he said. “Rural centres rarely get such shows. “Having top musicians perform at a free show in a rural village makes the event even more special.”
On Christmas Day last year, Machakaire hosted an equally good musical fête featuring top entertainers, some of whom will be participating in this year’s festivities. The success of last year’s event coupled by the need to assist less disadvantaged members of the community led to the formation of Tinmac Foundation earlier this year. The foundation seeks to better the lives of disadvantaged and underprivileged members of the society.
“All I’m trying to do is give the people who raised me and put me in office a great Christmas experience just like last year,” said Machakaire. “Christmas is a popular period and most people visit their respective rural areas.”
Machakaire added that all was in place for the gig with people on the ground already polishing up preparations for the show.
“All is set for the show,” he said. “There are traditional leaders and members of the community working around the clock to make sure everything is in place.”