The Herald DUBAI. — It was a crowded lobby of Al Habtoor Grand where Kirsty Coventry — a former world champion swimmer and the most decorated Olympian from Africa — was switching between two roles with equal poise. If she was exchanging pleasantries with a top notch Emirati sports official at one moment, the owner of seven Olympic medals and her husband Tyrone were busy checking out if their six-month-old daughter was at peace with the nanny the next second. “She didn’t have a good sleep last night,” says the 36-year-old swimming ace from Zimbabwe, before the new mother switched quickly into the role of the Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation for her country. There has never been a dull moment for Coventry ever since she was appointed in the role little over a year back by Zimbabwean President Mnangagwa — and she didn’t dispute the suggestion that pursuit of excellence in the pool was certainly an easier job. Speaking to Gulf News in an exclusive chat on the sidelines of the International Sports Innovation Conference recently — Coventry sounded genuinely happy at being able to convince the world cricket’s governing body to lift the ban on Zimbabwean cricket in October. The International Cricket Council had banned Zimbabwe from participating in the ICC events last July for what was deemed as “political interference”. “I would like to thank the ICC chairman, Shashank Manohar, for giving me an opportunity to listen to the blueprint I have in mind. It was a very good meeting which paved the door for our re-entry,” said Coventry, pleased at being able to broker peace between the ICC and Zimbabwe’s cricket body. The country which once boasted the likes of the Flower brothers or Heath Streak will, however, miss out on a shot at the World T20 in Australia, though they will be able to take part in the Under-19 World Cup in January. The crisis may have been averted for now, but how does Coventry — a rookie in politics — plan to cope with the ills in their cricketing system like corruption or quota-based selection in the national teams? “I would like to see athletes being recognised as athletes. They are not black or white but athletes as we need to put up the best team for Zimbabwe. “It doesn’t matter whether you come from a poor or rich community,” she says in right earnestness. The advantage with cricket in Zimbabwe, as she sees it, is that since it comes close to what could be their national sport, “there is a system” in place. “There is no problem with funding as the ICC ploughs in enough funds but the federation needs to have a long term plan and show the results. “I am currently asking all the national federations to challenge themselves — they need to look at themselves closely. It’s one thing to have passion for the sport but you should know how to administer or run it,” said Coventry — who is now busy prioritising the disciplines where the establishment will focus in on future. — Gulfnews.com.