The Herald ACCRA — A Nigerian football player has been fired by a club in Slovenia for impregnating the daughter of the president of the second division outfit after just six months with the side. The player, whose name has been withheld, said he was fired for “gross misconduct and indiscipline” over the pregnancy which he has claimed full responsibility. Four Nigerians are registered with second tier clubs in Slovenia with Bede Osuji, Temitope Nelson, Gerald Chiyoke and Sulaiman Adedoja playing in that league but it is uncertain which of them is involved in the pregnancy issue. The player, who fears public backlash over the situation, has since returned to Nigeria after his ordeal and he is worried over the girlfriend and her pregnancy. The player is considering FIFA action against the club following the decision to sack him over reasons he feels are unjustified after joining the club just in May. “I signed a three-year deal with the option of another year but last month I ran into trouble when my girlfriend who happens to be the daughter of the president said she was pregnant for me,” he said. “The club got to know about it and summoned me for a meeting. I got there and admitted that I am responsible for the pregnancy and I was told to stay at home and not to be seen around the club premises until I am instructed to return.” “A week later I was called to the office and told that my agent has been informed about their plans to terminate my contract for gross misconduct and indiscipline. The news came to me as a surprise because I have not been found wanting in any area since I arrived the club six months ago.” The Nigerian player says he is considering legal action at FIFA over the claims of the club that he went beyond the boundary set for players of the club. “My agent called me up and said we should file a case with FIFA that he has a recording of the president saying my contract was terminated for having an affair with his daughter. She’s an adult for God’s sake, we both love each other and decided to have a child.” “Now I don’t know what will happen to her and the child since I’m back in Nigeria. They have forced her to block me on all social media platforms so we have not been communicating. The few friends I made at the club are also scared of speaking to me about her apparently they don’t want to run into trouble with the team. I’m confused right now,” he concluded. — Ghanasoccernet.com