The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
NGEZI PLATINUM coach Rodwell Dhlakama says midfielder Denver Mukamba is the best Zimbabwean footballer in his specialist role as an auxilliary forward. Dhlakama, who started Mukamba’s rehabilitation programme, believes the forward is good enough to play for the Warriors again. The veteran coach said Mukamba’s rehabilitation process is just beginning and he wants to be there when the player finally puts all his troubles behind him. Dhlakama took a bold decision to take the talented player to Chapungu during mid-season when no one was willing to sign the troubled star. And, Mukamba didn’t disappoint, putting on some strong performances and scoring crucial goals, albeit in vain, as Chapungu failed to survive the chop. But, that was long after Dhlakama had left the Air Force of Zimbabwe side for Ngezi Platinum. Dhlakama passed that probation at Ngezi and has since been rewarded with a substantive role on a one-year contract. “What I realised is that, Denver (Mukamba) needs someone who understands him,’’ said Dhlakama. “He needs (some) fatherly love and that’s what I gave him at Chapungu. I am glad he is now back in full force. He just needs good management and the good thing about it is he is very willing to reform. “He is my project and I haven’t yet finished rehabilitating him. He is the best player in the country for his position. Even in the Warriors, he still remains the best man for the behind-striker position. “It is up to him, as an individual, to completely show that he is willing to be professional. I cannot rule the possibility of getting him here since I feel he is a project I have been trying to resuscitate.’’ Dhlakama said he would have to consider the risk of bringing him to Ngezi. “Ngezi Platinum is a big brand and we cannot risk bringing someone who may end up tarnishing our image,’’ said the coach. “So, it is up to him to do away with that bad boy behaviour which I believe we have worked so hard to eliminate.” Dhlakama, who says he has not been comfortable with the “acting coach” tag, will be reinforcing the squad now that he has landed probably the most volatile coaching job in local football. Ngezi finished fourth in the league and were runners-up in the Chibuku Super Cup. And the team on Wednesday rewarded their outstanding players with captain Frank Makarati landing the Player of the Year award. Donald Teguru snapped two awards, the Golden Boot and the Players’ Player of the Year gongs. Goalkeeper Nelson Chadya scooped the Most Improved Player Award while Mandlenkosi Mlilo and Wayne Makuva took home the Most Promising and Rookie Player awards.