The Herald Herald Reporters
Major supermarkets across the country now have the subsidised 10kg roller meal packets selling for anything between $38 and $50. Harare had already started selling the subsidised roller meal, while Bulawayo and Matabeleland North provinces commenced yesterday. OK Zimbabwe had the subsidised roller meal in Harare yesterday and shoppers were jostling to buy. Before the Government introduced a subsidy to cushion consumers recently, the prices were ranging between $100 and $250. Some outlets like Greens Supermarket were yesterday selling a 10kg bag for $38. A survey by our Bulawayo Bureau revealed that supermarkets such as OK and Zapalala located along Jason Moyo Street and Greens Supermarket located along George Silundika Street had long queues as residents waited to purchase the more affordable roller meal. Some customers at OK Supermarket said they had been waiting for hours to get the mealie meal, which was in short supply for nearly two weeks. “We have been looking for this subsidised mealie meal for more than two weeks and now that it is here we will wait for the supermarket to sell it,” said Ms Nonhlanhla Moyo. “They told us that 60 tonnes had been brought here by two lorries which are offloading.” Grain Millers Association of Zimbabwe (GMAZ) spokesperson Mr Garikai Chaunza declined to comment on the quantities availed to the market. “The national total consumption per month is 32 000 tonnes,” he said. “As of now, the Ministry of Finance and Grain Marketing Board (GMB) are the ones who are working hand-in-glove with millers and I cannot comment on the quantity, but the Ministry of Finance can.” On Saturday, Government started rolling out the subsidy programme to all licensed grain millers and has made advance payment for this month, as it moves to stabilise mealie-meal prices. President Mnangagwa had to intervene to reverse an earlier decision to remove the subsidy on grain, which had prompted the milling industry to increase the prices of mealie-meal beyond the reach of many. Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister of State, Cde Richard Moyo, said retailers had started selling the subsidised mealie meal.