The Herald Robson Sharuko and Eddie Chikamhi
FC Platinum’s latest triumph in the league championship means they will not have the luxury of an off-season break for, at least, three straight years. The Zvishavane miners are paying a hefty price for their success and CAF’s change of season. The Zimbabwe champions did not have an off-season last year, as they had to prepare for the start of their CAF Champions League group games against Orlando Pirates at Barbourfields on January 12 this year. That match, which drew a capacity crowd, ended goalless. This year, FC Platinum won’t have an off-season, for the second straight year, as they will be involved in their CAF Champions League group assignments even during this festive season with their next match being in Cairo against Al Ahly on December 28. Other matches will follow in January next year while the rest of the domestic clubs will be having their off-season break. With FC Platinum having been confirmed as Zimbabwe’s representatives for the 2020/2021 CAF Champions League, which gets underway in August next year and has matches throughout December, it means the Zvishavane side won’t have an off-season break next year. Should they win the league championship, again next season, and confirm participation in the 2021/2022 CAF Champions League season, the same brutal cycle will play out for the club. Depending on the number of consecutive domestic titles they want to win, they could go for as long as five to six years, without enjoying the luxury of an off-season break, as long as they continue representing the country in the Champions League. ‘‘As we celebrate this momentous achievement today (on Sunday), we remain alive to our vision to be a leading football brand in Africa and are in no way under illusion as to the amount of resources this will take; both material and talent,’’ club president George Mawere said after securing a third straight league title. ‘‘This vision is no mean aspiration. It calls upon us to search for the guidance and support of the entire nation. ‘‘Our success will definitely have far-reaching influence and impact, well beyond Zvishavane and the Midlands province, and as we celebrate today as the reigning Zimbabwe Premier League club football champions, who will once again go on to represent the nation at the highest level of club football on the continent, our celebrations resonate at national level.’’ The refusal by the domestic football family to move their calendar in line with the new CAF football season, which will now start in August and end in May from next season, means FC Platinum will have to keep paying a colossal price in the event they keep winning the championship. Already, this year, FC Platinum players will not enjoy any Christmas break as they will be preparing for their match against the Egyptian powerhouse in Cairo on December 28. The players were given a five-day break after their triumph on Sunday but they are set to resume training today before leaving for Egypt on Christmas Eve. “Obviously, there is no Christmas break for us this year,’’ coach Lizwe Sweswe said. ‘‘We had a short rest after completing the Premiership season and we return to work tomorrow (today) because we have an important Champions League game coming up next week. “I think we needed a bit of a break. We have played so much competitive football without rest in the last two years. I think four-five days was not enough but it will definitely help the players recover under the circumstances. ‘‘It has been a very long season.’’ FC Platinum have featured in three Champions League campaigns in the last 22 months. Although fatigue and the effects of a congested schedule have been showing, at times, they still managed to win the domestic league titles in 2017, 2018 and 2019. “The key point was the recovery processes and the recycling of the players. We made sure we did not overload these players and I think the rotation system worked,” said Sweswe. Despite their dominance at home, FC Platinum have constantly failed to make a mark at continental level. The platinum miners are representing Zimbabwe for the third year on the trot in the Champions League. They reached the group stage, for the first time, during the 2018-2019 transitional season which came immediately after the 2018 edition. But they finished winless in a group that included Pirates, Horoya of Guinea and eventual champions Esperance of Tunisia. This year they were given a tougher group which included Sudanese giants Al Hilal, Tunisian side Etoile du Sahel and record eight-time winners Al Ahly. FC Platinum began the current Champions League campaign on a disappointing note, losing the opening two games. First was a 1-2 away loss to Al Hilal of Sudan before a demoralising 0-3 home defeat to Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia. They are yet to win a game in the group stage of the tournament. Club chairman Evans Mtombeni said they were looking to beef up their squad this January to improve their competitiveness. The technical team is expected to make their presentations soon after returning from Egypt. “We have been fighting on many fronts in the domestic league and the CAF competitions. While we have been doing well, and winning championships at home, somehow, we have fallen short in the continental competitions. “Without taking anything away from our players, I think we need more quality for the Champions League. So, when we plan for next season, we will plan with the Champions League in mind,” said Mtombeni.