The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HARARE-BASED City Football Academy say they had a moment of a lifetime when they rubbed shoulders with future stars of Spanish giants Barcelona in a junior football tournament in Zambia. The Kuwadzana-based side returned with priceless lessons in the bag despite losing all their matches in a tournament that also featured Greek side Panathinaikos’ Lusaka Academy, DRC’s TP Mazembe and hosts Sports Excellency Football Academy. A selection of FC Barcelona’s Spanish and Zambian-based academy players also took part. The tournament, which featured the Under-10, Under-12, Under-14 and Under- 16 age-groups was held at the Toyota Zambia Arena. City Football Academy coach Agrippa Guti said eight of their players were short listed for further assessment. The players, who include defensive midfielder Nigel Vhera, Kupakwashe Mazokera, Kelvin Moses, Fortune Mayeve, Tinenyasha Kativhu, Brandon Tondori, Lawrence Muromo and Tadiwanashe Mavhurere will return to Zambia early next year. “We learnt a lot from that trip. It was a real eye-opener, from the way they run their junior football, the infrastructure and the quality of their coaching was top notch. “This is our first time at this tournament, and we have picked up some priceless lessons. “Results apart, our boys have had great exposure in Zambia against some of the best talents. FC Barcelona for example, have a very powerful side. “There were scouts from Europe and eight of our players have been shortlisted by Barcelona and Panathinaikos FC for their Zambian academies. “They said they will do follow-ups and sign consent forms with the parents. FC Barcelona director Miguel, in particular, commended the discipline showed by the Zimbabwean players. “So, we would want to thank ZIFA and the Sports Commission for approving this trip and the parents of the children for their support. We are hoping to get the invite again next year. It can only help us improve,” said Guti. City Football Academy travelled with 35 players for the tournament and these included their Under-10s, Under-12s and the Under-14 team