The Herald Rumbidzayi Zinyuke Manicaland Bureau
PRESIDENT Mnangagwa is expected in Mutare today to officiate at the ground breaking ceremonies for the Sakubva Urban Renewal Project and the Fern Hill Gemology Centre, which together should create 45 000 jobs. The Sakubva urban renewal initiative is expected to give the city’s oldest suburb a major facelift, which will see the phased demolition of substandard old houses and the building of modern flats, along with an upgraded market and refurbished social amenities. The Gemology Centre will involve value addition of diamonds being mined in Chiadzwa and will be subdivided into four sections. There will be a section offering training across the value chain, another for cutting and polishing companies, a jewellery blacksmith and manufacturing branch as well as an ancillary services wing that will house all supporting businesses. Minister of State for Manicaland Provincial Affairs Dr Ellen Gwaradzimba said the two projects would change the face of Manicaland. “The President will come for the ground breaking ceremonies of the two projects,” she said. “These are long-awaited projects and the people of Manicaland are very excited. “This is an early Christmas gift we are getting from His Excellency as he comes to formalise the construction of the new smart city, which will give a new look to the City of Mutare.” Dr Gwaradzimba said the Sakubva project will create more than 20 000 direct jobs and 25 000 downstream jobs for the people of Manicaland and spur Government’s devolution initiative, which mandated each province to utilise its natural resources and human capital to develop. “These projects have already been approved by Cabinet, so very soon, you will see a hive of activity,” she said. “The President had said he would only come when there was already building underway, but because there has been some delays for unforeseen reasons, he is coming to do the ground breaking, which will push people to move very fast.” The Sakubva renewal project will see the construction of world class facilities at the Green Market, the Flea Market, Sakubva Stadium, the long distance Bus Terminus and the Sakubva Musika vegetable market, as well as the construction of high rise flats. “The houses in Sakubva are no longer fit for human habitation, so the high rise concept will accommodate more families and clear the backlog for accommodation,” said Dr Gwaradzimba. “The flats will also be offered to people on a rent to buy basis, so it means people will have ownership of their own homes. This is a development that we cherish and appreciate because in this new dispensation, it is about delivery of services to the people and we are very happy that this will happen.” Dr Gwaradzimba said she was expecting people from all sectors and across the political divide to attend the ground breaking ceremony because the projects will benefit the whole of Manicaland. “We will also have a lot of investors who are interested in investing in Manicaland and we are saying here comes devolution to Manicaland,” she said.