The Herald Blessings Chidakwa Municipal Correspondent President Mnangagwa has dismissed Felix Nhlanhlayamangwe Ndiweni from his position as Chief Ndiweni following recommendations by the Matabeleland North Chiefs’ Provincial Assembly. Ndiweni has since been ordered to surrender all State property in his possession, including a Government vehicle. The renegade chief’s removal comes after chiefs from the province met in Bulawayo last month and recommended that he be removed from the position pending finalisation of a family dispute. His elder brother, Mr Joram Ndiweni, who is based in the United Kingdom, was contesting the chieftaincy and the Zimbabwe Council of Chiefs directed that the provincial assembly address the issue. In Ndebele custom, chieftainships normally pass from the father to the eldest son, which was not the case with Felix. Secretary for Local Government and Public Works Mr Zvinechimwe Churu announced the dismissal of Felix through a letter dated December 12 and addressed to the Matebeleland North Provincial Assembly of  Chiefs. “Please be advised that His Excellency, the President has, as per your recommendation and in line with the provisions of Section 283 (ii) of the Constitution and subsection 2 (a) (i) of Section 3 of the Traditional Leaders Act (Chapter 29:17) removed Felix Ndiweni from the office of Chief Ndiweni in Umguza District of Matabeleland North province, with effect from November 30 2019,” he said. Mr Churu directed the Provincial Council to officially notify the former chief as well as cease the payment of his allowances. He also ordered the recovery of the Government-allocated vehicle, all chiefs’ regalia and any other State assets in his custody with the assistance of police if need be. The move paves the way for the Provincial Council to liaise with the Ndiweni clan to select a candidate for appointment as substantive Chief Ndiweni in terms of Section 283 (1) of the Constitution of Zimbabwe and Section 3(2)(1) of the Traditional Leaders Act Chapter 29:17. According to the Constitution, the appointment, removal and suspension of chiefs must be done by the President on the recommendation of the provincial assembly of Chiefs through the National Council of Chiefs and the minister responsible for traditional leaders and in accordance with the traditional practices and traditions of the communities concerned. Disputes concerning the appointment, suspension and removal of traditional leaders must be resolved by the President on the recommendation of the Provincial Assembly of Chiefs through the minister responsible for traditional leaders.