The Herald 3rd DECEMBER, 2019
1.ARC Drought Response Cost Insurance Policy Agreement and the World Food Programme Replica Policy
Following presentation by the Minister of Finance and Economic Development, Cabinet approved the signing of the Insurance Policy Agreement between Africa Risk Capacity Limited (ARC Ltd) and the Government of Zimbabwe, as well as the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Zimbabwe, the World Food Programme and ARC Limited.
The African Risk Capacity Agency seeks to provide participating member States of the African Union with access to financial resources to help them to respond to extreme weather events. The agency has caused for the establishment of an affiliated financial entity, the African Risk Capacity Insurance Company Limited, to provide insurance coverage, risk pooling and transfer services to ARC member states.
Cabinet was informed that Government, through Treasury, would purchase a drought insurance premium of US$1 003 571, which will unlock a maximum coverage of US$5 345 668,00. Furthermore, the World Food Programme (WFP) will pay a premium amount of US$200 000 which will unlock a maximum coverage of US$1 065 329,00 for this coming 2019/20 season.
Cabinet notes that the country will benefit in terms of ARC coverage of drought by preparing and putting in place necessary measures towards drought mitigation and early response to save the vulnerable populace. 2. Progress Update on the Implementation of the 4th 100-Day Cycle Priority Projects
Cabinet received and appreciated progress reports in the implementation of the 4th 100-Day Cycle Priority Projects, which Ministers presented as follows:
1) Industry and Commerce
The Minister informed Cabinet as follows: 2) Information Communication Technology, Postal and Courier Services
The Minister informed Cabinet as follows: 3) Lands, Agriculture, Water and Rural Resettlement
The Minister informed Cabinet as follows: 4) Mines and Mining Development
The Minister informed Cabinet as follows: 5) Finance and Economic Development
The Minister informed Cabinet as follows: 6) Foreign Affairs and International Trade
Following presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Cabinet noted with satisfaction that efforts to portray the country’s image in good light are yielding results. The Anti-Sanctions Day was commemorated on 25 October 2019, and a concept paper was produced and circulated to all Zimbabwean missions for onward transmission to host governments in October 2019. As Chair of the SADC Organ on Defence and Politics, Zimbabwe successfully led the SADC team observed elections in Mozambique, Botswana, Mauritius, and Namibia, which were conducted peacefully. Zimbabwe is set to receive an additional 53 million Euro under the country’s National Indicative Programme for the period 2014-2020 targeting the health and agricultural sectors. 3. Medical Services Amendment Bill, 2019
Cabinet considered and approved the Medical Services Amendment Bill, 2019 which the Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs presented as the chairman of the Committee on Legislation. The Minister informed Cabinet that the Medical Services Amendment Bill, 2019 is intended to align the Medical Services Act [Chapter 15:13] with the Constitution, under the ongoing Legislative Reform Programme which is being pursued by the Second Republic. The amendment primarily seeks to safeguard and promote the right of every citizen and permanent resident of Zimbabwe to access basic health care services, including reproductive health care; the right of every person to emergency medical treatment in any health institution; and the right of every child to health care services. In particular, the amendment accords priority to the rights of persons over 70 years, persons living with disabilities and veterans of the liberation struggle to access medical attention. 4. Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Zimbabwe and the African Union Sports Council Region 5 on Co- Operation in the Establishment of a Sport Museum
Cabinet considered and approved the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Zimbabwe and the African Union Sports Council Region 5 on co-operation in the establishment of a sport museum in Harare, as presented by the Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, chairman of the Committee on Legislation. The Minister informed Cabinet that in its endeavour to preserve the sporting culture and heritage of its member states, the African Union Sports Council (AUSC) Region 5, formerly known as the Supreme Council for Sport in Africa Zone VI, has come up with a grand project to capture the historic achievements that form the legacy of the region. It is envisaged that such a project will elevate the rich and unique sporting history of the region by immortalising the achievements of persons who have performed with distinction across various sporting disciplines. Africa’s Region 5 will thus establish, capture and manage all its historic milestones and proud moments in their original nature and exhibit them as a way of preserving the region’s identity and heritage. The unanimous choice of Zimbabwe to host the museum again provides ample testimony that the country is without doubt the envy of the region in terms of the hospitality of its people as well as their sporting excellence. Zimbabwe itself will benefit immensely through sport tourism, infrastructure development through the museum, and the promotion of sport, sport education, culture and information preservation. Numerous employment opportunities will arise as we set up and manage exhibitions. As such, demand for our curators, historians, artists, designers, tour guides and administrative staff will certainly grow. 5. Report on the 2019 Investment for Africa Forum Hosted by Egypt: 22-23 November, 2019
Cabinet received a briefing report on the 2019 Investment for Africa Forum which the Minister of Lands, Agriculture, Water and Rural Resettlement attended in Cairo, Egypt, from 22 to 23 November, 2019. The Investment for Africa Forum provides a unique pan- African platform that brings together African Heads of State and Governments, prominent regional and international investors as well as International Financial Institutions. The Forum deliberated on Africa’s abundant opportunities, and explored means of utilising the continent’s vast human and natural resources towards achieving self-sufficiency and the continent’s industrial transformation. Cabinet took note that the AfreximBank, which has always stood by Zimbabwe, demonstrated a commitment towards supporting the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement in order to increase intra-Africa trade. In that regard, the bank set aside US$35 billion to bridge the funding gap in intra-Africa trade, and has already disbursed US$15 billion in that regard. Zimbabwe’s participation at the Fourth Investment Forum demonstrated the country’s commitment to building closer economic and trade ties with other regional countries in the spirit of operationalising the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement. 6. Update on the Industrial Action by Doctors and City of Harare Nurses
The Minister of Health and Child Care updated Cabinet on the industrial action by public hospital doctors as well as City of Harare nurses. He indicated that 46 dismissed doctors had presented themselves for work at various institutions following the moratorium extended by His Excellency the President to the doctors who were dismissed. Cabinet directed that the moratorium lapsed on 1 December, 2019 and would not be extended as this would negatively affect patients. Cabinet resolved that discussions on conditions of service would only be held with those doctors who are at work.
Cabinet further noted with satisfaction that the construction of flats for lease to doctors had commenced in Harare.
Two blocks of medium-density flats will be constructed at all the country’s hospitals on a phased approach. 7. Report on the Fuel Supply Situation
The Minister of Energy and Power Development updated Cabinet on the energy and power supply situation in the country. Cabinet noted that the fuel supply situation was constrained in the past week due to the depressed uplifts which were experienced early in the week and the previous week. However, it was pleasing to note that the situation improved as the week progressed after the interventions which were done by the National Oil Infrastructure Company (NOIC). After the NOIC implemented 24 loadings at its depots, the daily uplifts had surpassed the daily consumption rates of five million litres combined product.