The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter AFTER taking the lead during the first session of the Harare Senior Swimming Championships at Les Brown Pool over the weekend, Sharks are confident they will retain top spot again this year. The event is held over two weekends and the second session will take place from this Friday to Sunday at the same venue. By end of the first session on Sunday, Sharks had a combined team score of 913.50 points with their girls’ team contributing 454.50 while the boys’ side had 399 points. Sharks girls captain, Gemma Schonken, said they were looking forward to winning the championships following a positive start. “I am the captain for Sharks, I am really proud of my team and I hope we will do well. It’s really exciting and I can’t wait for next weekend.” Schonken, who claimed several medals, including three gold, was impressed by her results. “It’s been really good, I have taken off a lot of time in my finals from the heats, so I am really impressed with myself, especially considering I have been really busy this term. “I am glad with the amount of training I have done. “I am competing against some strong girls, I have won three bronze, two silver and three gold so far,” said Schonken. Some of the Sharks swimmers, who have had outstanding performances, include Vhenekai Dhemba, Mkhuseli Mahobele and Donata Katai in the girls section as well as boys captain Dylan Huang and Mwipikeni Paul. Sharks coach, Timothy Phiri, said despite not having many seniors, their young team had done well and believes they will continue from where they left off this weekend. “I think Sharks we are doing well, from juniors to our seniors, although we don’t have lots of seniors like 17 and over age-group, we have got few of them. “But we are doing well because we have got juniors, for the first time, getting into the finals, winning medals. “I promise it’s fireworks (this weekend) because at the moment as you can see from the results there, I think we are going to win it again,” said Phiri. Highlands were second with 876 points and among the outstanding swimmers from the club was Tanatsirwa Chitsurura who picked up a number of medals, including four gold. “I am really happy that I managed to get the four gold. I wasn’t expecting some of them. But it’s really a good feeling when you know that you have won. “I think just train hard and never give up, you have to work for success. So you have to work really hard if you want to go other places,” said Chitsurura. Spartans were third with 547 points while Pirates Zimbabwe and Dorado Swim Club were fourth and fifth with 263.50 and 208 points. Harare Otters Swim Club are at the bottom with 112 points.