The Herald Tendai Mugabe Senior Reporter Zimbabweans should correct past economic wrongs and come up with sustainable policies that bring the country back on a robust path towards the attainment of Vision 2030, President Mnangagwa has said. The President said populist policies for short-term benefits were dangerous to the economy and citizens should be mobilised to take advantage of economic opportunities presented by the Government in its various programmes. The ruling party’s First Secretary made the remarks while addressing the 112th Ordinary Session of the Zanu-PF Central Committee in Harare yesterday. The meeting was the last for 2019 and came a day before the official opening of the 18th Annual National People’s Conference at Goromonzi High School today. He said it was a defining conference biased towards economic revival as espoused under the Second Republic. “The course we have taken as a party and Government to resuscitate and reform our economy is the correct one. Never be swayed from it,” said President Mnangagwa. “We must strengthen our resolve to correct the past wrong decisions we made with regards to our economy. Populist policies and initiatives for short-term benefits have dire long-term complications. “Let us permanently put our country back on the rails towards recovery, growth and attainment of Vision 2030. I am confident that together in unity, we will carry the revolution forward progressively and democratically. “All our people should be mobilised to be able to take advantage of the opportunities that arise from all Government programmes. Let the engagements with our membership be about economics and productivity across all sectors, that way we will achieve sustainable economic development.” As a listening party, President Mnangagwa said, the Zanu-PF leadership should be participatory and always pay attention to the plight of the people. He said greed and corruption had no place in the Second Republic. Said President Mnangagwa: “I have said that we are a listening party and servants of the people. Hence, as the year comes to an end, let us all recommit to serving the people and fulfilling our responsibilities diligently without reservation, always concentrating on areas that promote their standard of living. Let us be the leaders of integrity, who hold fast to the beliefs and ideology of our party while shunning corruption, greed, pride and arrogance. “Participatory leadership is enriching as it allows us a greater appreciation of the challenges that face the people as well as their aspirations. I urge us all therefore to be leaders that co-exists with the people and have them at heart. Let us pay close attention to the plight of the ordinary people in constrained conditions by caring for them and offering them help, with love and respect. “Let the engagements with our membership be about economics and productivity, it is only through higher productivity across all sectors that we will achieve sustainable economic development. We also meet today against the ever-growing need to support initiatives that change the status and plight of our people in every sphere of life. It is therefore imperative that as we engage, alive to the need for an all-inclusive approach to national development as this will result in stronger and empowered society which will in turn lead to a more prosperous nation. “There can be no substitute for unity of purpose, hard honest work and discipline. Our policies with regards to agriculture, mining, manufacturing, tourism, infrastructure development and energy must be understood by our people. Our vision to modernise social services such as education, health, housing infrastructure and empower, the women, youths, war veterans, people living with disabilities as well as small and medium enterprises must be made clear to them.” 