The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
CAPS United midfielder Joel “Josta’’ Ngodzo is heavily tipped to become the new king of domestic football when the Soccer Star of the Year is crowned in Harare this evening. This banquet falls in a landmark year when the country is celebrating the 50th anniversary of the awards. The banquet will be broadcast live on the Zimpapers TV Network platforms starting at 6pm. The battle for the big gong appears to be a tight contest between Ngodzo, Highlanders’ in-form forward Prince Dube and Triangle skipper Ralph Kawondera. The trio appear to be the front runners for the top three but there could be some dark horses in Highlanders goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda and ZPC Kariba defender Ian Nekati. Ngodzo, who was unveiled among the eleven finalists last week, will return to the podium for the third time in his career after gracing the calendar in 2010, as a runner-up, and in 2018. This could be one of the greatest comeback stories in the domestic Premiership as Ngodzo’s football career was almost written off, a few years ago, after he was discarded by his boyhood club Highlanders. The 30-year old, who was runner-up to Charles Sibanda in the 2010 Soccer Star of the Year race, managed to make it onto the calendar again last year. However, he faces a stiff challenge from Prince Dube, who has suddenly rediscovered himself, following a prolonged dip in form. Dube has been the main man at Highlanders, of late, scoring important goals that have helped turn the Bulawayo giants’ fortunes. Triangle’s Kawondera contributions have also been priceless for the Lowveld side. He has scored 11 goals. Highlanders goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda remains the dark horse with his impressive statistics that include 15 clean sheets. Sibanda is also the strong favourite for the Goalkeeper of the Year award. The Under-20 Player of the Year is a battle between Highlanders’’ Andrew Mbeba and TelOne goalkeeper Rapael Pitisi. The Coach of the Year and the Referee of the Year will also be unveiled.  2019 Soccer Star of the Year finalists:  Ariel Sibanda (Highlanders), Ian Nekati (ZPC Kariba), Evans Katema (Dynamos), Phineas Bamusi (CAPS United), Prince Dube (Highlanders), Wellington Taderera (Black Rhinos), Clive Augusto (formerly Chicken Inn), Joel Ngodzo (CAPS United), King Nadolo (TelOne), Ralph Kawondera (Triangle), Never Tigere (FC Platinum)