The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
LEADING Zimbabwean professional golfer Scott Vincent has finished the 2019 Asian Tour golf season on a respectable seventh position of the order of merit standings. The top professional, who earned his Tour Card back in 2016 through the qualifying school, is currently the only Zimbabwean to play on Tour and is not looking back as he seeks European and PGA Tour cards. Vincent managed to take part in 11 tournaments in the 2019-year calendar and is only two places down the ladder from last year’s position in which he took part in nine more tournaments totalling 20 and finished fifth, his highest since joining the Tour. This year Vincent has accrued US$251 643 from the 11 tournaments with his biggest cheque coming in the Shinhan Donghae Open in South Korea back in September when he pocketed US$67 233 for a third place finish. The performance ranks among some of his career highlights in the past four seasons he has been in the East. For the 2019 season, Vincent only missed the cut at the ISPS HANDA World Super 6 in Perth, Australia, after he carded 70, 71 and 69 for a total 210. In the local circuit professional golfers did not see much action as sponsorship was hard to come by and only a few took part in the Sunshine Tour and excelled. Ben Follet-Smith, Ryan Cairns, Mark Williams, Marc Cayeux and the Mandhu brothers Mohamad and Kayaam were active on the Tour and managed to make some outstanding outings. The Zimbabwe Ladies Golf Union as organised as they are managed to successfully do well in the international scene after they successfully defended the biannual Gilberson & Page Trophy and the annual A&B Triangular Ladies Golf tournament. The A&B Triangular was held at Royal Harare while the Gilberson & Page Trophy tournament was played at the Sigona Golf Club and Karen Country Club in Nairobi, Kenya, back in September. The prestigious Gilberson & Page Trophy tournament marked its 50th edition and Zimbabwe had won it in Zambia two years ago. Zimbabwe was represented by Margaret Nyamukondiwa, Batsirai Tilowakuti, Danielle Bekker, Kudzai Mandava, Emily Jones, Loveness Chandavengerwa and Rumbidzai Chisango. The Zimbabwe Golf Association, who are facing criticism from different stakeholders, also did well as they managed to win the Triangular Series held in Malawi early this month.