The Herald ENGLAND. — Arsenal’s winless run continued with Freddie Ljungberg’s first Premier League game as boss ending in a draw against struggling Norwich. The Gunners, with Ljungberg at the helm on an interim basis after Unai Emery was sacked on Friday, have not won for eight games. The result leaves Arsenal eighth in the Premier League, seven points off a place in the top four, while Norwich remain 19th, three points from safety. While Arsenal started brightly, familiar defensive failings resurfaced as Teemu Pukki ended his eight-game goal drought with a shot that deflected off Shkodran Mustafi. The hosts’ lead only lasted eight minutes though, with Christoph Zimmermann penalised for handball and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang levelling for the visitors with a retaken penalty, after four Norwich players had encroached when his original effort was saved by Tim Krul. More calamitous defending allowed Todd Cantwell to re-establish Norwich’s lead, with the midfielder slicing through the Gunners defence and placing an effort into the bottom corner on the stroke of half-time. However, Aubameyang again drew the visitors level, turning in a loose ball from a corner to ensure Arsenal gained a share of the points. Meanwhile, Wolves remain sixth in the Premier League after Matt Doherty’s equaliser against Sheffield United 1-1 extended their unbeaten run to nine games. Nuno Espirito Santo’s side were second best until Doherty headed in Raul Jimenez’s cross after 64 minutes. But they finished the game stronger as the Blades, who were fortunate not to have George Baldock sent off, hung on to extend their unbeaten run to six games. It was a sharp contrast from earlier in the match as the visitors took the lead after 63 seconds. Lys Mousset took a touch from Baldock’s right-wing cross before firing in his fifth goal of the season. But Chris Wilder’s team paid for costly misses by David McGoldrick early in the second half when they were in the ascendancy. Sheffield United, who have not lost away in the league since January, remain a place below Wolves in seventh. Wilder would have been pleased his side continued their impressive start to the season, especially as Baldock rode his luck by avoiding a second yellow when he fouled Diogo Jota. But it was a game where Mousset’s value was underlined once again, especially as McGoldrick showed again why he has not scored this season. Mousset did not have much Premier League pedigree when he was at Bournemouth, scoring only five goals during three seasons after signing from French side Le Havre in 2015 for about £5m. — BBC Sport.