The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
IN a move that will go a long way in uplifting the standards of football coaching in this country, a German association has extended an invitation to Zimbabwean coaches to attend a high-level coaching course. The Berlin Football Association, in conjunction with a German non-profit sporting organisation the GeBe Foundation, will conduct an international coaching course from January 27 to February 7, 2020.
The 12-day course will be conducted by some of Germany’s top football instructors. Jan Scharlowsky, the head of the Berlin Football Association, in his invitation letter to Zimbabwean coaches sent on Monday, indicated the coaches will receive a certificate from his association upon successful participation. “The Berlin Football Association hereby confirms that we offer further training for international football coaches. The courses are conducted by selected instructors of the Berlin Football Association. “We offer an international (coaching) education from 27 January 2020 to 7 February 2020 in Berlin.
“The contents are at the level of the German coach education. The coaches (will) receive a certificate from the Berlin Football Association upon successful participation,” read part of Scharlowsky’s letter. A number of Zimbabwean coaches have been invited to attend this coaching course and they include Dynamos head coach Tonderai Ndiraya, Black Rhinos’ Herbert Maruwa and UK-based junior football coach Phillip Zulu. The Berlin Football Association have named Zulu as one of the course’s co-ordinators and the UK-based mentor confirmed to The Herald yesterday that he will be “part and parcel” of this coaching seminar. “I am co-ordinating this coaching course and I’ve been tasked with recruiting all coaches from the COSAFA region leagues and beyond, wishing to enrol. “We currently have coaches from the Comoros, Seychelles, Madagascar, Zimbabwe and some from UK who have enrolled for this course. “A few coaches from Algeria, who are based in the UK, are also enrolling and some more from North Africa are expected to do so shortly. “All Zimbabwean coaches wishing to enrol will be assisted to access their Visa applications at the Germany Embassy in Harare.” Zulu said this course is “definitely” a good opportunity for aspiring and practising coaches who intend to raise the bar in terms of their educational experience. “German football philosophy has some of the best elements in terms of developing young players at the highest levels of the modern game hence it has become our preferred location. “Coaches will be able to access some top-flight coaching sessions being organised by Bernd Wulffen (of the GeBe Foundation), with the help of some top professional clubs during the course as part of the wider exchange programme. “To some coaches, who will to return after the course, they could do so and be able to get attachments with top clubs so that their knowledge and learning skills are enhanced. “These programmes are a huge step towards improving and developing the fundamentals of professional football coaching that are the minimum benchmarks of top European football leagues. “Our football in Zimbabwe is lagging behind big time, our systems are outdated and the minimum expectations for changing the status quo is to introduce robust comprehensive coaching programmes,’’ said Zulu.