The Herald Dear Beloved Patrons Re: Apologies The club wishes to apologise to you all for the results and the team’s poor performance in the last two games. This is not the result we wanted and expected to see. On behalf of the players, coaches and management we’re so sorry for the let down and disappointment. You deserve better than what we saw yesterday (on Saturday at the National Sports Stadium against FC Platinum). We want to also take this opportunity to thank you all for the support you gave the team yesterday (on Saturday) and throughout the season both home and away. You demonstrated love for your team and showed why you’re the best football fans in the country. We appreciate the gallantry efforts of the Green Army that travelled with the team to all the away games. You’re precious and an asset to the club. We recognise and fully appreciate your contributions as the 12th man every week. Please Makepekepe Family let’s not lose heart and give up. Good times are made out of bad times. We’re in this journey together. We will work hard with your support and get it right next season. We have plans to improve the team and to also listen to your good ideas and suggestions that can take the Club forward. It’s so painful to lose in the manner we lost. We will do a thorough reflection and evaluation on what went wrong this season, draw lessons and ensure that all our weaknesses this year are turned into strengthens next year. We will definitely learn from our mistakes. The fact that we’re also disappointed by coming third shows that we’re an ambitious club that does not settle for nothing short of number one. Please let’s remain united as our name suggests even in defeat. We will get it right next season. In conclusion I say let’s get up, dust ourselves now and start planning for next season. Let’s use this setback as preparation for a major comeback next year. We thank you all for your support May God Bless you and keep you all safe during the festive season. Have #MerryChristmas Long Live #Makepekepe #Shaisamufaro #ManchesterRoadBoys #GreenMachine Zvakadaro Tinoti #KepekepeBhora