The Herald Sports Reporter
SHARKS are the Harare Swimming Championship winners.
They dominated the event over the past two weekends after amassing a combined team score of 1 820.50.
The championships attracted the usual Harare clubs, Sharks, Highlands, Spartans, Pirates Zimbabwe, Harare Otters and Dorado as well as a few clubs from outside the capital. Sharks’ swimmers dominated most of the events with the likes of Mkhuseli Mahobele, Donata Katai, Vhenekai Dhemba, Wisdom Shumba, Mufaro Ngwenya and captain Dylan Huang accumulating the most points in their age-groups. Fourteen-year-old Mahobele, who had the highest score for the girls 13 to 14 years age-group, with 109.50 points was pleased with most of her results. She came tops in several events, including the 400m freestyle in 5:16.15minutes.
She was also first in the 100m butterfly in 1:11.89 minutes and the 200m backstroke in 2:50.20 minutes.
“So, the competition has been quite tough. I have made a few personal best times and I have done good times as well. “I am just really happy with most of my times and I know I can do better, I don’t think I was at my best here but in the future I think I am going to do much better. “I think my major highlight would be my 100m butterfly, I did a 1:11, I wanted to do a 1:10 but I think I am going to do better,” said Mahobele. Huang said the victory was a reflection of the hard work they put in as a club ahead of the competition.
“We have been training quite hard over recent months to getting to the build-up of this gala.
“I feel like the overall competition of the gala has improved greatly. “I mean, with so many people going on tours from our club and training hard, I feel like our club has done well and (hope) we will continue to do this throughout the season,” said Huang. Katai said it’s been a great competition with the sportsmanship spirit displayed by participants making it interesting.
Highlands were second with 1 621 points and in third place were Spartans with 1 001 points. Dorado Swim Cub and Pirates Zimbabwe occupied fourth and fifth position with 441 and 393.50 points respectively.
Harare Otters were sixth with 264 points.