The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo
Following last week’s tips about how to wear a tie, my inbox had an influx of messages with many people admitting they were not aware of the rule of the tie.
Ladies and gentleman, with fashion you learn every day. I met a few guys in the corridor, what surprised me was not their attire, but the correct position of the tie.
A little secret; I was one of the guys who always had a short tie until I learnt the rule.
A gentleman does not disclose his tailor, by the way. So, last week saw local footballers and legends trading their soccer jerseys for tuxedos and bowties.
Yes, that was the order of the day at the Mana Resorts in Glen Lorne, Harare, for the “Castle Lager Soccer Star of the Year” event and it was a red carpet affair. Just like what they usually say: “Who knew anything good can come out of Nazareth?” Who knew soccer stars can look good in suits. Hahaha!!! Sports journalists also dressed up for the occasion. But there is always the other side to everything.
Although they looked glamorous, not all of them were on point or had a perfect fit. Maybe we are used to seeing them wearing tracksuits and jerseys. Some of the stars who rocked the red carpet at the “Castle Lager Soccer Star of the Year” include the legendary George Shaya, Prince Dube, Joel Ngodzo, Evan Katema and Moses Chunga, as well as sport presenters Makomborero Mutimukulu and Howard Musonza. Congrats to Joel Ngodzo for being crowned Soccer Star of the Year, but you did injustice to the suit and hairstyle.
Not that we wanted you to look chiselled in deep wave or bald cut or be the David Beckham. Just give us the clean smart look. The good thing is that you can get away with the look because of your profession, just like what Khama Billiat did a few months ago with the trendy suit-sneaker combo. I then agree with the saying that “a well-tailored suit is to women what lingerie is to men”.
You need to ask any woman and she will tell you that a man in a suit is sexier than a man with rippling abs. If only men paid as much attention to their suits as they pay to their abs, though!
The players looked amazing to me. They were not only soccer stars, but “suit stars”.
It is not merely about donning a suit. There is so much that goes into wearing one.
It is all about a glove-like fit and attention to detail. There are some points to consider, if you want to wear a suit, be it for occasion or work — be the gentleman we all waiting to see: The last button should always be open. Button the shirt at the top If you are wearing a dark suit, a light pocket square is advised and vice-versa. Never pair a sports watch with your suit Do not go overboard with accessories Shoes should always complement the colour of your suit Socks should always cover your legs The tip of your tie should be at or just before the buckle of the belt Even the waistcoat should finish at the belt If you wear suspenders, do not wear belts The colour of your tie has to be in contrast with your suit The tie-bar should not be wider than the tie The top button of a two-button and the middle button of a three-button suit should fall at or above the navel 