The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
FOLLOWING an improvement that saw them jump one place up from their previous showing to finish the 2019 netball season on third position, ZDF Queens captain Caroline Matura is convinced they are not far from claiming the championship in the near future. The Rainbow Amateur Netball League team were this season beaten to the top spot by Correctional Queens and second-placed Platinum Queens. For making the top three in the league, Matura says it was a better year from 2018 when they were fourth and was full of praise for her team for keeping on fighting after losing some key players during their campaign. They lost goal shooters Mercy Mukwadi, who left for the United Kingdom in September, and Rejoice Dengezela, who relocated to South Africa. “It’s exciting although we wanted to be in the top two. This year our target was to be in the top two but all the same my team did well. “The challenge we faced is we lost some players and we had new players coming, so we were trying to work on combinations. Mercy Mukwadi left for the UK and Rejoice Dengezela, who played goal attack and goal shooter relocated to South Africa. “So we were really affected and we had players from defence moving to try shooting. But I am happy we managed, so 2019 was not that bad,” said Matura. The army side became the first team to beat champions Correctional Queens in two years and Matura said it was a confidence booster for them. “That win against Correctional Queens, it was very important. Correctional are a tough side. When we went for that game we were not sure if we were going to win but the girls gave it their best and we realised that it was possible,” said Matura. The Joel Sibanda-coached side got the sponsor’s choice award for being the most disciplined team this year. Matura said it was something positive for the side and hopes they keep improving. Although Matura is enjoying the festive holidays with her family, the 31-year-old is already looking ahead to the 2020 season. And she says having last won a league title in 2013, when they were still playing under the Zimbabwe Netball Association-run Super League, it’s high time they up their game to challenge for the championship. “In 2020 we need to work as a team, we are looking at the championship and we will try by all means to win. We need to win the championship, it’s been long since we were champions. The last time we won was in 2013,” Matura said. ZDF coach Sibanda, however, said there is need for all teams involved in the league to step up and commit themselves to making sure they are in a position to sustain themselves throughout the season. Sibanda feels the fact that some teams ended up being awarded walkovers because certain clubs failed to travel for their games affected their chances of fighting for the RANL title. “It’s discouraging that we had teams that failed to travel to fulfil their matches and some got points when they were awarded walk overs . . . Some of these things we need to be professional, matches should be fulfilled so that it does not disadvantage anyone. “I think the best thing for the league to be competitive and more exciting, if clubs cannot travel for their game, they should pull out of the league. Clubs should be prepared, if they can’t afford they should not play in the league because it affects the rhythm of the league,” said Sibanda. His team were beaten to second position by Platinum Queens on goal difference. The ZDF coach said the departure of some players also affected their game-plan and is looking at beefing-up his side for next season. “In 2019 we had a good year, we started well. What affected us was the departure of some of our players. First it was Rejoice and then Mercy. Their departure affected our rhythm because when they left we had not lost any game. “I need about two defenders and two attackers, mid-court I am good but roughly I am looking at five players including one for mid-court just to create competition,” said Sibanda. The Joel Sibanda-coached side got the sponsor’s choice award for being the most disciplined team this year. Matura said it was something positive for the side and hopes they keep improving.