The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent
Tocky Vibes has decided to be different from other dancehall musicians through poetically exploring social issues while most of his counterparts prefer rhyme over reason. Most dancehall musicians have become like street commentators who package less serious issues in danceable riddims to appeal to urban youths. While many dancehall music followers prefer following club bangers that excite them for a few months before fizzling out, some have admired Tocky’s style of tackling social issues in a different way. Tocky, who was at one time described by the late Oliver Mtukudzi as his millennial equivalent, is now a peripheral artist in local showbiz because of his chosen style. The depth that comes with his music has alienated him from the everyday dancehall fan who prefers rhyme over reason.
For years, Tocky Vibes has insisted he is answering his calling through music and popularity is not of concern to him.
“I will continue to make positive music. “Music is bigger than what we all think as people. People die, but music lives on,” Tocky once said in justifying his unique route.
Poignant as they may be, his thoughts reflected a man existing in a philosophical bubble.
Fortune has not been on Tocky`s side. A man who used to be among the most booked acts in Zimbabwe is now performing on a “here and there” basis.
He once had the whole nation eating from his palms, but is now alternating audiences between small town pubs here at home and community halls filled with homesick Zimbabweans outside the country. Over the past few months, he has incessantly released video material.
Youtube comments on each and every offering have a significant number of listeners asking why these songs are not dominating airwaves. There is a curious sentiment in Zimbabwean music shared among fans.
They believe music alone is not enough to sustain a career, especially with the demanding local audience which expects mercurial releases and performances week in, week out. Roki, Tocky Vibes and Soul Jah Love are used as examples of how poorly managed talent can go to waste.
Mtukudzi`s career took a significant shift when Debbie Metcalfe took over as manager, she helped him become the superstar he had always been destined to be. The Tsungi Zvobgo – Chiwoniso Maraire partnership was a marvel to watch.
When a management underpinned by friendship paid dividends, the results were there for all to see.
Winky D may not be the most talented person in his genre, but the calibre of his manager Jonathan Banda who pulls strings from behind the scenes has made the musician big. So, inasmuch as Tocky Vibes has personal beliefs that disregard popular expectations, he is probably discovering that he needs help in his chosen path. The singer has decided to enlist the services of a competent manager Godfrey “Vokal” Bakasa.
Many may not know Vokal, but he is one of the best in the business of building careers with his management skills.
Managers in Zimbabwean music are usually glorified booking agents, but Vokal has a record to show he can be a good crisis manager if the situation requires him to. He has presided over two of the most controversial artists over the last decade.
Vokal was Seh Calaz`s manager when the musician had his fierce beef with fellow dancehall chanter Soul Jah Love.
The beef had potential to end careers but Vokal saw to it that his artist came out with minimal scratches despite losing the lyrical battle to Soul Jah Love. Fast forward to a few years later, Vokal was managing rapper Stunner. It was during Vokal`s time that Stunner rammed a car estimated to be worth US$40 000 and had a widely publicized fight with his then wife, Olinda Chapel which ended in a divorce.
The way it happened, Stunner could have easily become history but he still has a career to speak of, thanks to Vokal who worked tirelessly to contain the situation behind the scenes. This is the man Tocky Vibes has hired.
It appears to be an easy task for Vokal as Tocky is not the most controversial of artists, especially with his new found line of reasoning. Convincing promoters to book a man who appears to have been relegated to a third tier act, will take ingenuity and Vokal says he has a plan. “He receded to a different audience, he was now focusing on a mature and older audience. But as a team we are working very hard to make him cater for all. “We have plans to go regional and beyond. His sound can go big in Africa,” Vokal said.
Will this partnership between a poet and firefighter work? Will Vokal`s streetwise approach fuse well with Tocky`s meditative aura?
The formulation of the duo was almost impossible to imagine and the outcome should also be left to be interpreted by time.
This is not the first time an exceptionally gifted dancehall artist has teamed with a manager of repute. Soul Jah Love, a few years ago forged an alliance with Benjy Nyandoro and the partnership was thoroughly underwhelming.
It remains to be seen if Vokal will be able to turn Tocky’s fortunes.