The Herald In an effort to make life better, Zimnat offers services essential for prudent wealth management, from insuring wealth to providing short-term financing solutions and long-term financial planning. Long-term financial planning is a rich discipline with a myriad of tools. Asset management is one of the key tools at one’s disposal in the quest for long-term financial planning. The asset manager’s goal is to protect and grow your wealth through investment vehicles in equities, fixed income securities, property and other structured investments. The mysterious science behind it is simply in-depth analysis of economic and political information that allows for efficient allocation of capital. Pension funds and corporates are usually familiar with the need for long-term financial planning.
Pensioners should be able to comfortably live off the income from their annuity for the rest of their life (if they’ve put enough money into it). Providing this level of financial security for ordinary people is a pension fund’s primary aim and, in the current climate, a serious investment challenge. For corporates, capital accumulation is important for business expansion. It is required to support the process of establishing new subsidiaries and building them into successful entities that can provide them with a strong return on their investment. Zimnat Asset Management provides discretionary and non-discretionary investment management and advisory services to pension funds, life assurance companies and corporate companies, as well as individuals and families. As a client your investment is managed according to a specific strategy, which is extensively discussed and reviewed periodically to align with your portfolio and investment objectives. Unlike the entities mentioned above, as ordinary individuals you are usually not inclined to think in terms of long-term financial planning and there is a misconception of viewing investments and savings as the same thing. Savings are part of one’s income set aside in one’s bank account or under one’s pillow or as contributions to a savings club for spending at a future date. However, investments are savings that generate returns through, for instance, dividends, interest or rentals.
Investments, when managed correctly, increase in value over time, allowing one to sell at a profit. Individual investments are a useful asset to have as they can contribute to financial security and independence. They allow you to build wealth faster and thereby attain certain goals, such as buying a home, saving for retirement or starting a business. There is a common misconception that associates investment with large sums of money which has been one of the major causes for low investment product uptake amongst individuals. However, unit trusts are investment vehicles that pool a number of investors’ money into a single fund, which is managed by a fund manager. The amount one can invest into a unit trust can range from as little as ZWL$500. Zimnat Asset Management operates several unit trusts funds that offer exposure to money market instruments, quoted equities and bonds. Management of risk is an important factor in long-term financial planning. It considers a number of fundamental issues which include economic fundamentals, political environment, international relations, the corporate governance practices of listed companies and changes in investment regulations, as well as the social responsibility of the individual or corporation with the wealth. As an organisation driven to empower you to reach your full economic potential Zimnat Asset Management continually assesses your investment portfolio to ensure it is structured according to your preferred risk appetite, with the ultimate objective of hedging against potential capital loss. In a nutshell, whether you are an individual or corporation, an asset manager will aid you in achieving your long-term financial goals. Zimnat Asset Management provides innovative investment solutions aimed at meeting the wide-ranging requirements of its clients. Zimnat is a diversified financial group made up of four business units, namely Zimnat General Insurance, Zimnat Life Assurance, Zimnat Financial Services and Zimnat Asset Management. It is associated with Sanlam, which is the largest non-banking financial services group on the continent. Win exciting prizes with Zimnat today! Simply answer by completing the following statement from the article:
Zimnat Asset Management operates several unit trusts funds that offer exposure to ………….. To answer the above question, post your answer with the Hashtag #ZAMtrivia on your social media page and tag the Zimnat account with your answer. For more details contact us on e-mail customercare@zimnat.co.zw or call us on 024-2707582/3/5/6. Website: www.zimnat.co.zw