The Herald LONDON. — Mikel Arteta gave Arsenal players the four keys to his new regime when he waited for them in the dressing room after Saturday’s bore-draw at Everton. Keeper Bernd Leno revealed the ex-Manchester City No. 2 and former Gunners’ midfielder gave a brief lowdown — the day before taking training for the first time. The Metro report Germany star Leno as saying: “He didn’t speak too much about quality or about tactics. He just said he wants to see players who run, who support their team-mates, who defend the goal, play as a team. “I think this was our main problem. We played this season some good games, like this, but many games we were not good enough on this point. “I think this is the way he needs to push us. We understood the message.” Arteta had seen Arsenal rarely troubled in a dire 0-0 stalemate at Goodison Park, Duncan Ferguson’s fourth and last game as Everton caretaker-chief before Carlo Ancelotti’s arrival. And although there was little to suggest the Gunners are better than their current 11th position in the Premier League, Leno suggested they were at least much tighter as a team. He said: “We didn’t let (Everton) have any ­transitions and the distances (between our defenders and their attackers) were much closer. “This is the only way to play, because the Premier League is too strong to have one, two or three players that don’t defend.” Meanwhile, Arteta has insisted he will start with an open mind, giving frustrating players like playmaker Mesut Ozil the chance to start afresh. Spaniard Arteta said: “You’re not going to be judged on what you done in the past, positive or negative. “We will try to put the most competitive team out, we are to be ready and nullify them as much as possible.” Ozil and Alexandre Lacazette took part in training on Sunday after being among the group of players who missed the draw against the Toffees. There could be a clear-out at Arsenal in the next year, with a host of players including Ozil and Granit Xhaka linked with moves away from the club. Arsenal are not expected to do major business in the January transfer window, with limited funds available. Arteta has targeted Wales assistant coach Albert Stuivenberg to help lead his Arsenal revolution. New boss Arteta is finalising his backroom team, with former Everton assistant Steve Round and Inaki Cana Pavon, goalkeeping coach at Brentford, set to join. Freddie Ljungberg will also remain with the first team. But Sportsmail understands Dutchman Stuivenberg (49) is also being considered by Arteta. Wales are preparing for Euro 2020 and boss Ryan Giggs will not want to lose his key lieutenant now. But discussions about an approach for Stuivenberg have taken place and Arsenal are set to make their move. “We made a decision that the best thing was for him to stay with us. He knows the players, he knows the situation. I got a good impression. He’s ready to help. He was very positive.” — The Sun.