The Herald Sports Reporter
DESPITE losing two of their stalwarts, skipper Hamilton Masakadza and Forster Mutizwa, defending champions Mountaineers will be looking to lift the Logan Cup for an historic fourth time in a row. The first-class competition gets Zimbabwe’s 2019/20 domestic cricket season underway today. The holders will face Tuskers in the season-opener at Old Hararians Sports Club while Eagles will take on Rhinos at Harare Sports Club. A fifth side, Rangers, from the Alistair Campbell High Performance Programme, has been added to the premier provincial competition. But, they will only make their Logan Cup bow next week. Having dominated the four-day competition for the past three seasons, Mountaineers will once again start as favourites. “We have done well over the last three seasons and we will definitely be the team to beat,” Mountaineers coach Shepherd Makunura said. “We would, obviously, love to make it four out of four, but we are wary of competition from the other sides.” But having lost Masakadza and Mutizwa, who both recently retired, will the defending champions cope without the duo? “It’s never easy to replace such big players like Hamilton and Forster who have played a pivotal role for us over the years, but it’s time for the other players to raise their hands and stand up and be counted,” Makunura said. “I believe we can still retain the trophy with efforts from all the other players. We still have the likes of Timycen Maruma, Roy Kaia, Kevin Kasuza, Tendai Chatara and Donald Tiripano, just to name a few.” Eagles began last season as strong contenders for all the domestic titles, but they must have been disappointed to finish a distant third in the Logan Cup. “Indeed, not a finish we would have liked, especially considering the talent we possessed in our squad,” Eagles coach Stuart Matsikenyeri said. Matsikenyeri is hoping to get their campaign off to a bright start, as they take on a Rhinos side that will no longer have the services of a number of seasoned players. Rhinos have always had the strongest squad on paper, boasting the likes of Brendan Taylor, Kyle Jarvis and Graeme Cremer over the past few seasons. But the trio are no longer on their books, with Taylor and Jarvis moving to Rangers this season, while Cremer has taken a break from cricket to be with his family abroad. “This season will see Rhinos fielding a few new faces due to the departure of Taylor, Jarvis and Cremer,” Rhinos coach Adam Chifo said. “While we have retained the likes of PJ Moor, Neville Madziva and Brandon Mavuta, it’s pretty much a very young side that will help us rebuild.” “I am confident that though we may no longer look the best team on paper, the talent and passion we have is quite exceptional.” Their credentials will be put to a stern test at the hands of Eagles this week. — ZimCricket