The Herald Arts Reporter MUSICIANS drawn from across the country’s 10 provinces will tonight take to the stage for the all-night Zanu-PF Conference Gala to be held at Ruwa Primary School. Established and upcoming artistes will share the stage during the gala, which is expected to start at around 6pm and run until Sunday morning. Organisers said everything to do with the gala was already in place and encouraged people from all walks of life to throng Ruwa Primary School grounds for the event. “Everything is already in place and musicians drawn from around the country have expressed their eagerness to perform at the gala. “Inasmuch as the gala is part of the Zanu-PF conference, it is also a platform for unheralded and upcoming musicians to showcase their talents. “We have a line-up consisting of the country’s top musicians, who will be taking to the stage throughout the night. “It is an event not to be missed and we encourage people from around the country to attend the gala,” said the organisers in a statement. Sulumani Chimbetu backed by his Orchestra Dendera Kings is expected to sample some of his new songs from his forthcoming album, which he said was almost ready, including the trending track “Ndunge”. Progress Chipfumo, who is known for his energetic performances during such events, is also on the line up along with Andy Muridzo. Comedian-cum-musician Madlela Sikhobokhobo will travel all the way from Bulawayo together with Iyasa to perform at the all-night event. Renowned gospel music singer, Blessing Shumba will also sing in praise and worship at the Zanu-PF Conference Gala. Zimdancehall chanter Sniper Storm will lead some of the aspiring and upcoming chanters when he takes to the stage. Little-known artistes — Mukangapoto, Original Major, Chirarangwe Express, Fletcher Black Majority, Marange General Fox and Big Lions Band — will want to prove that they have the potential to be counted among the country’s best when they take to the stage. Mbare Chimurenga Choir and Budiriro Struggle Choir and the Police Band are also expected to light up the night with their customary polished performances that often leave the crowd clamouring for more.