The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
FOR the second year running, the Rainbow Amateur Netball League are set to reward outstanding teams and individuals in Harare on December 13.
The curtain came down on the 2019 season on Saturday. RANL secretary-general Moses Gukurume said the awards were a sign of their commitment to rewarding outstanding individuals and teams. “Being able to host the awards, for the second year running, is a clear testimony of our commitment to rewarding excellence and hard work and many thanks go to our sponsor, who has been so resilient in these trying economic times,” Gukurume said.
The awards will see the champions and the first and second runners-up being rewarded for their efforts throughout the season.
Correctional Queens are the 2019 champions after defending the title they won last year. There will be awards for the best player of the season, golden hand (the player with the highest number of goals), players’ player of the year, coach of the year, most consistent umpire as well as the most disciplined team and the five regional champions. Gukurume said they will soon reveal the packages.
“All the other teams that were placed number four to number 18 should take heart because no team will go home empty handed. “They will receive a token that will motivate them to do better next season,” said Gukurume.
He said contributing players to the national team that represented the country at the Vitality Netball World Cup in July was one of their major highlights this year. “The involvement of our girls in representing the country in Liverpool was a major highlight of the year.
“When they came back you could see that the experience they had acquired in the national squad generated a certain level of competition that lifted our game. “The season had its fair share of challenges, most of them being attributed to the economic environment in the country.
“Some of our teams failed to travel to their games and in some cases they arrived late,” Gukurume said.