The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
ON-LOAN FC Platinum striker Rodwell Chinyengetere could see the remainder of his contract with South African Premiership football side Baroka while still at the Zvishavane club. Chinyengetere joined Baroka early this year after two seasons in which he won the local Soccer Star of the Year accolade in two successive years but failed to assert himself in the team. He was subsequently loaned back at FC Platinum in the mid-season and helped the club retain the championship for the third season running. The former Hwange star is supposed to return to Baroka this January according to the terms of the loan. But the striker, who is currently with FC Platinum in Egypt ahead of their CAF Champions league group match against Al-Ahly tomorrow night, is doubtful he will be back at Baroka. His contract with the South African team is supposed to end in June. “At the moment, I am mostly concerned with helping FC Platinum achieve their CAF Champions league goals,” said Chinyengetere. “My contract with Baroka ends in June and I am supposed to return there in January. However, I don’t feel like but it all depends with my handlers and the South African team (Baroka). “I want to play football regularly. That’s my profession, that’s my passion so on returning, I can’t say much at the moment. Maybe my handlers can tell a lot on that one but I see myself remaining with FC Platinum.” Chinyengetere arrived at Baroka as a top rated player but couldn’t nail a first team jersey before he was eventually loaned back at FC Platinum after he grew frustrated. FC Platinum are looking to galvanise their team as they will also be playing in the CAF Champions league following their local triumph. They are linked with Highlanders hot shot Prince Dube, Ian Nekati of ZPC Kariba and Triangle’s Ralph Kawondera. CAPS United’s speedster Phenias Bhamusi and Manica Diamonds defender Partson Jaure as well as Harare City’s Ishmael Wadi are also heavily linked with the Zvishavane giants. Meanwhile, Nhamo Lameck could be offloaded after he failed to command a starting place since moving from Triangle at the start of this season.