The Herald LONDON. – Arsenal are increasingly confident of appointing Mikel Arteta as their next manager this week after holding late-night talks with the Spaniard on Sunday. Senior figures from the Gunners, including managing director Vinai Venkatesham and contract negotiator Huss Fahmy, were seen leaving Arteta’s Manchester residence early on Monday morning following City’s 3-0 win against the Gunners on Sunday afternoon. Metro.co.uk revealed on Saturday that City expected an approach from the Gunners following Sunday’s clash at the Emirates and the club had already given Arteta permission to speak to his former side about an exit from the Eithad. The meeting at Arteta’s house lasted around two-and-a-half-hours, where he was given promises about the club’s budget, updates on contract renewals and assurances over the board’s expectations in the short term. Arteta had been one of a number of candidates to replace Unai Emery a fortnight ago but he’s now the leading contender and the Spaniard has made it clear that he’s willing to put reservations over taking the job in mid-season to one side in order to accept his “dream job”. The Gunners had been willing to bide their time over an appointment but just one win in five matches under Freddie Ljungberg has hastened the club’s pursuit of a new manager. Pep Guardiola admitted after Sunday’s game that the decision was in Arteta’s hands and the pair were set to meet on Monday afternoon, where it was expected that Arteta would convey his desire to join Arsenal. When asked about Arteta’s situation after City’s win over Arsenal, Guardiola replied: “If it happens, it will happen. “When he wants to talk we are open to talk but it’s private, I don’t want to make things uncomfortable.”
City beat the Gunners 3-0 at the Emirates and interim boss Ljungberg urged the club afterwards to speed up their move to appoint a replacement for Emery. “I think it needs to be cleared up, to make a decision so everybody knows,” the Swede said after the game.
Arteta joined Arsenal in 2011 from Everton and spent five years at the club before retiring in 2016 in order to work with Guardiola at the Etihad. -Metro.