The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
IT was another successful year for Correctional Queens as they underlined their status as the best team in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League by retaining the championship for the second season running. The Christopher Simeon-coached side lost just one match against ZDF Queens during their campaign.
This was their first defeat in two years. “Winning is a tradition to us, it’s now like breathing,’’ said Simeone. “We are happy that our legacy of dominance prevailed.
“I’m honoured and privileged to have an opportunity to work with such a group of amazing stars.
“The 2019 season was packed with a lot of competition and exciting moments. “The first 2018 RANL awards, where we were crowned as the first RANL champions, triggered a lot of desire from all teams to win the 2019 championship. “Several teams acquired new players across the country and increased their training intensity to prepare for battle to try to end our dominance.’’ With some of the best players in the league such as centre Edna Nyamhazha, utility player Lorraine Manjoro and Felistus Kwangwa, who plays goal defence, the Zimbabwe Correctional Prisons Services outfit emerge as the best side.
“The only thing I know is strong walls shake but do not fall,’’ the coach said. “One great mistake from these other clubs was to fail to dislodge us from the top during the 2019 season.
“It’s something they won’t be able to do in 2020 as we are changing our approach and training intensity to crush any challenge.
“Our defeat by ZDF, the first since the inception of RANL, will act as a wake-up call for us to up our performance as a team.’’ Kwangwa said they have witnessed the growth and improvement of competition in the league.
“Most likely, the competition is going to get higher and higher for my team. I think we have a lot to work on because everyone wants to claim this title. “Being crowned champions, walking away with a lot of money as compared to others, I know the competition is going to be better when compared to this year,” Kwangwa said.