The Herald NYON. — Holders Liverpool will return to the scene of last season’s Champions League triumph after they were drawn against Atletico Madrid in the last 16 of the competition yesterday. Jurgen Klopp’s side will travel to the Wanda Metropolitano, where Liverpool lifted the trophy in June, for the first leg of their tie against three-time runners-up Atletico. “The task is going to be difficult because we have an opponent that are the reigning champions,” said Atletico director Clemente Villaverde. “They are the champions, they have all the assets to be called the best team in Europe. We will have to use all our hard work and our experience. We know they are not going to make it easy.” Chelsea take on Bayern Munich in a repeat of the 2012 final won by the Blues while Tottenham face RB Leipzig. In the pick of the other ties, Borussia Dortmund will play Paris St-Germain and Napoli take on Barcelona. The first legs will be played on February 18, 19, 25 and 26 with the return matches on March 10, 11, 17 and 18. This season’s final is on 30 May at the Ataturk Stadium in Istanbul, the ground where Liverpool won the epic 2005 final against AC Milan when they came back from three down to draw 3-3 and win on penalties. The Reds’ last-16 draw also takes them back to the stadium in which they won last year’s final — Atletico’s Wanda Metropolitano. City’s tie with Real features the first competitive meeting between multiple Champions League-winning managers Pep Guardiola and Zinedine Zidane. Champions League last 16 draw Borussia Dortmund (GER) v Paris Saint-Germain (FRA) Real Madrid (ESP) v Manchester City (ENG) Atalanta (ITA) v Valencia (ESP) Atletico Madrid (ESP) v Liverpool (ENG) Chelsea (ENG) v Bayern Munich (GER) Lyon (FRA) v Juventus (ITA) Tottenham Hotspur (ENG) v Leipzig (GER) Napoli (ITA) v Barcelona (ESP) First legs to be played on February 18/19/25/26 Second legs scheduled for March 10/11/17/18 The Europa League last-32 draw Wolves v Espanyol Sporting Lisbon v Istanbul Basaksehir Getafe v Ajax Bayer Leverkusen v FC Porto FC Copenhagen v Celtic Apoel v FC Basel Cluj v Sevilla Olympiacos v Arsenal AZ Alkmaar v LASK Club Brugge v Manchester United Ludogorets v Inter Milan Eintracht Frankfurt v FC Salzburg Shakhtar Donetsk v Benfica. Wolfsburg v Malmo Roma v Gent. — AFP.