The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter WHILE second-placed FC Platinum host Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia at Barbourfields this weekend, Premiership leaders CAPS United will be inactive for the second week running. The Premier Soccer League yesterday revealed that the remaining two rounds of the top-flight action will be wrapped up next week. The penultimate round will take place during midweek, while the curtain is set to come down on December 15. And CAPS United coach Darlington Dodo is a concerned man. The Green Machine lead the standings on 58 points, two better than FC Platinum, ahead of the penultimate round. Makepekepe face Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab while the defending champions are at home to Black Rhinos. The two title contenders will then bring the curtain down in what could be an explosive battle in Harare next weekend. But, Dodo will have to manage his players’ load and recovery for another week while his FC Platinum counterpart, Lizwe Sweswe superintend, over a CAF Champions league tie against the Tunisian giants. “Look, we are on top of the log and we had picked some good momentum before the break,’’ said Dodo. “Obviously, resting for two good weeks will certainly affect our rhythm as a team. Rhythm is one thing one will not want to see being affected. “In as much as our rhythm can get affected, we cannot fold our hands and do nothing about it. “We know what we are aiming for and the players are well aware of the task at hand as well. “Football is about application. We have been playing throughout the year and we need to keep on working hard. Our emphasis at the moment is to strike a balance between load and recovery. “We have to maintain our fitness levels, perfect some drills and keep an eye on the prize.’’ FC Platinum were in Sudan last Friday where they began their group adventure in the African safari with a 1-2 loss at the hands of Al-Hilal. After flying for over 2 000km, they haven’t had time to rest as they are now preparing for the crunch tie against Etoile du Sahel. The Premiership season this year ran behind the schedule after spilling into December and forcing the Castle Challenge Cup, featuring the league winners and the Chibuku Super Cup champions, to be played early next year as the season opener. PSL spokesperson, Kudzai Bare, said the league this season faced numerous disruptions. “We had a congested fixture this year and, if we factor in the international matches and the AFCON and then Triangle and FC Platinum playing in CAF competitions it was bound to be difficult. “Next year we should be starting the season earlier,” said Bare.