The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
HERENTALS coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva has demanded mental strength from his charges ahead of their make-or-break Castle Lager Premiership tie against Bulawayo Chiefs at Luveve this afternoon. The Harare team, which has sneezed in only their second season in the Premiership, could be relegated this afternoon if they fail to pocket maximum points against their plucky hosts. That Bulawayo Chiefs themselves are not yet safe from the chop could even make Herentals’ life harder at a venue the hosts have been difficult to break. Herentals occupy the last relegation slot with 38 points from 33 matches, the same as Yadah Stars, who have an inferior goal difference. “We have to show character. I think we have the capacity as a team to survive,’’ said Mutiwekuziva. “Bulawayo Chiefs are not yet safe and they are difficult to beat, but believe me, we will grind a result. We have been working hard in training and we need to perfectly implement everything that we have been practising in this game. “If we win this match against Bulawayo Chiefs, then we will almost secure our place in the Premiership.” It is not only Bulawayo Chiefs and Herentals who are battling for survival. Four other clubs could as well find themselves joining the already relegated pair of Mushowani and Hwange.Yadah Stars need to win away to Mushowani and pray other results go their way as well. The Genesis Mangombe-coached charges are third-from-bottom with 38 points to their name and need to win this one. “Mushowani are a very organised and tricky team to face. We will have to play with a lot of composure and attack from the first whistle. “We are focused and we can win the game,” said Mangombe. The Midlands duo of TelOne and Chapungu could as well find themselves back in the Central Region Division One league if they fail to beat Chicken Inn and Highlanders. TelOne are on 40 points, a single point ahead of their neighbours, and if they are unable to add at least a point to their meagre tally, they could as well, depending on other results, sink back into Division One. Harare City, who did themselves a huge favour after beating Dynamos on Wednesday, host Ngezi Platinum Stars at Rufaro, hoping to use home advantage and take their tally to 43, which will be good enough for them to survive.