The Herald Talent  Gore
Harare has a lot to offer in terms of outdoor entertainment and people are sometimes spoilt for choice when they plan open-air gatherings. The last place that most hard-working Zimbabwean citizens would want to be, especially during the weekends, is indoors.
It seems citizens of this country not only work hard, but also play equally hard. Outdoor facilities have been created for revelers who are not deterred by distances or the size of their pockets.
Many such facilities have made names for themselves, for various reasons, good and not so good. Some have come, made noise, fizzled and shut down, while others have attracted people from all sections of the society. Longcheng Plaza
This establishment in Belvedere is beautifully set, with the imposing National Sports Stadium in the background creating a scenic atmosphere of fun in the sun. There are a variety of rides that children can go on and have fun, scream in excitement and nag their parents to let them on this ride and that ride. It is a great place for family outings as it offers activities for the whole family. Kingfisher
The place is located in Emerald Hill. Kingfisher is a great summer venue with no space limitations.
The place is ideal for the family as it offers a trampoline for the children, swings, canoeing, fishing and space for ball games.
There is a restaurant which serves light meals, snacks and refreshments. Guests are welcome to bring their own picnic basket and braai as there is a braai area. During weekends those families who want to spend quality time together usually go to Kingfisher. Heritage Adventure Park
Harare entertainment lovers who want to visit different leisure spots have a reason to smile following the opening of a new leisure joint, Heritage Adventure Park at Rainbow Towers.
Schools have closed and it is playtime for kids and more work for the parents.
However, there is no better way of reducing the work load than taking the kids to an open, refreshing and fun environment to enjoy the school holidays. Lake Chivero
Outside the usual places like Mereki, Zindoga, KwaFatso or KuHuku where people go out for BBQs and drinks, there is another hangout located at Lake Chivero off Harare-Bulawayo highway, which caters for the whole family.
Here you have a chance for a boat ride in the vast and wonderful Chivero.
Being one of the best outdoor hangout spots, Lake Chivero is a hive of activity every weekend as many people throng the place with their families to enjoy the afternoon sun and cool breeze coming from the water body. Tamba-Tamba
Tamba-Tamba is another popular leisure centre in Newlands where the whole family can relax. It is also a great party place and all-weather indoor venue, which provides various slides and other games. Their play areas also have a toddler section and there is a café which offers great food. Junction 24
This place is located a spitting distance from the Hunyani River Bridge, along the Harare-Chitungwiza Road.
Junction 24 has re-defined the term family outing in the capital. It is a mixture of various open-air concepts that have been in existence for some time, the place is serene and quiet. Lack of noise and bustle has made it a firm favourite for families.
The structure is characterised by well-manicured lawns and grounds, security friendly parking, under tree sitting, children’s play centre, excellent ablution facilities, five restaurants and bars to cater for various tastes.
Adults are spoilt for choice as the available bars (Mas Vergas, 419 Lounge, Wine and Spirit, Musoni Sports Bar and Pandari) offer varied playlists that cater for different tastes of music. Mega 2
Mega 2 has been a perfect platform for family outings in providing all sorts of recreational facilities for children. The spot is located in Hatfield and is a place to be during weekends with family and friends. Mtangaz Hideout
Being off-road along the Harare-Mutare Highway, Mtangaz has proved to be a place to unwind in peace.
One of the most outstanding features of the watering hole is its ability to come up with events that cater for family outings.
Children and adults enjoy horse rides at the hideout. Proprietors of the venue have made sure that they come up with interesting programmes for their patrons, with the major emphasis being on catering for family units.
Favourable prices for basics like soft drinks, alcohol and meat make outings memorable and affordable.
The only challenge with this joint is accessibility. It is, indeed, a hideout.