The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE’S Under-17 girls football team got their preparations for the World Cup qualifiers underway over the weekend at Eveline High School in Bulawayo with the majority of the players reporting for camp. The players started trooping into camp on Friday and three more were expected to join in late yesterday. The team is under the guidance of coach Guthrie Chipuka. The Under-17 side will get the ball rolling against Botswana in the preliminary qualifier to take place between January 10 and 12 away from home. They will then host the return tie between January 24 and 26. Botswana are yet to confirm the actual match date for the first leg. Chipuka said their main concern is the fitness level as most of the players were not active of late and some do not have passports which is likely to limit their selection. “These two days have been about measuring their technical ability. We want to measure technical ability and see where they are tactically because these players will be under different coaches and mostly teachers. So we need to see what we have before we decide what we want to do in building the team. “We don’t know much about the Botswana team. We only know that they got into camp early November that’s what we only know and have fast forwards from what I have tried to get . . . So I am now trying to see how we can around that. “Our players also some were on holiday, so we need to work towards getting them back to better fitness levels. Whatever we can do in two weeks we will do Because of the issue of passport the selection is limited to those with passports yet we need to get the best in the country,” Chipuka said. The women’s teams have got a busy schedule with the junior teams — the Under-17 and Under-20 involved in the World Cup qualifiers. The senior national team will compete in the Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifiers. The Mighty Warriors were drawn against Mauritius in the first round of the 2020 qualifiers. But for now more focus is on the junior teams, the Under-17 side and the Under-20, whose assignments get underway next month. The Under-17 have not been active for some time and a return to competitive action is something positive to the young players. The Under-20 team, just like the Under-17 they begin their campaign with an away tie against Malawi in the preliminary round between January 17 and 19 before the home tie on February 1 or 2. The Under-20 side are set to kick-start their preparations on January 2 at ZIFA Village in Harare. Under-17 Provisional Squad Plaxedes Mutanda, Martia Nyanhete, Mavis Vhera, Lorraine Mpasi, Margret Kanjekete, Nosipho Dube, Praynence Zvawanda, Thando Sibanda, Natalie Mbavha, Ntandoyenkosi Moyo, Melody Chikore, Aliyah Utumbe, Deon Gonya, Tadiwanahse Taderera, Pamela Nkomo, Patience Nkomo, Lebhukani Dongo, Sancia Zvikomborero, Tariro Chirume, Thandiwe Msipa, Sisa Ndebele, Nozipho Khumalo, Nokukhanya Ndlovu, Tinotenda Dhaurai, Priscilla Marikosi, Catherine Gwangware, Morelife Nyagumpo, Alice Moyo. 