The Herald Tadious Manyepo and Collin Matiza
CHINA-BASED former Zimbabwe youth international footballer, Walter “Ringers” Musanhu, will use a four-team junior tournament at Belgravia Sports Club in Harare to launch the Jadel Academy.
The tourney is set for Saturday. The academy will twin with the parent nursery in China.
Musanhu arrived in the country on Wednesday from China where he has won several accolades for football development.
He formed his Chinese version of Jadel Academy in Beijing only in August this year. Spurred on by the success of his academy, which has players from several nationalities, Musanhu has decided to do the same project here. And there is no better way of introducing the nursery than holding an Under-15 tournament at Belgravia Sports Club on Saturday. He has courted the famed Inter-Harare FC, Cumma and BN Academies for the tournament which will also see all participants being honoured with medals and certificates. “It’s my small way of saying thank you to the community that raised me. The tournament will be graced by several iconic figures who I am still talking to,” said Musanhu. “I have my own academy, Jadel Academy, in Beijing, China, which I formally launched in August this year.
“There are several players in different age-groups and of different nationalities. “Since August, the academy has done remarkably well and we have bagged so many awards with those youngsters.
“I am both the owner and the coach and, after realising that we can do even better, I decided to come back home and launch a similar project. “I want to make the local project massive as we will hire experienced and competent development coaches around.
“It is this academy where we will be picking players who will be joining our academy in China before we find suitable clubs for them.’’ He said this Saturday’s tournament will see outstanding individuals being honoured.
He is younger brother to former Dynamos defence stalwart Chamhu Musanhu, who is now based in Liverpool, England.
Chamu now works as a players intermediary and he recently brokered the move for Warriors centre-back Alec Mudimu from his Welsh First Division side Cefn Druids to Moldovian giants FC Sheriff Tiraspol. “When I used to play football during my time, I didn’t have the opportunity to play in Europe due to unseen circumstances maybe it was because of the way Dynamos was (being) run,’’ said Chamu. “But, this was my intention to say that if I become a football agent, they now call it football intermediary, I would like to help my brothers to achieve something that I failed (to do), so I’m in the right direction as we speak now.
“I’m happy for Alec and his family as well. “He’s got a God-given talent, so we thank God for that. Sometimes, we think we are the heroes but it’s the Almighty God who makes everything happen and this is the situation as we speak now.
“It’s good for Zimbabwe, it’s good for our country to have players playing in the top leagues in Europe.’’