The Herald Arts Reporter Pamushana High school from Masvingo Province are this year’s ultimate winners of the annual Old Mutual National Schools Quiz Tournament after they beat Kwekwe High school in the final of the competition held on Saturday at Rainbow Towers in Harare. For their efforts, at the competition hosted by local pan-African publishing organisation Book of African Records and sponsored by leading financial services provider Old Mutual, Pamushana High school received a Honda Fit vehicle as the grand prize. Guest of honour, Minister of Primary and Secondary Education Minister Cain Mathema, commended the quiz organisers and the sponsors for creating a platform for leaners to sharpen skills that include research abilities. In a speech read on his behalf by his ministry’s Permanent Secretary Peter Muzawazi, Minister Mathema said the quiz show was an inspiration to learners. “Congratulations to Old Mutual and Book of African Records for bringing this exciting programme to the nation. The Old Mutual schools quiz competitions encourage all our learners to make an original contribution to their field of research study as an integral part of their education. It is an approach to the integration of teaching and learning that emphasizes the discovery of new knowledge embedded in African knowledge,” he said. “The nature of the quiz is that it demands intensive research and enhances cognitive development. The quality of talents showcased during the course of the quiz competition is a cause for great pride and hope that Zimbabwe is developing cadres who will, without doubt, make their contribution to the socio-economic development of our beautiful country.” The Minister said the partnership between Old Mutual and Book of African Records should be sustained so that more opportunities get created in order to exploit the potential of local learners. “I invite more partners to the education space, which is critical to the laying of a firm foundation for the development of the country. As the country marches towards becoming an upper-middle income economy by 2030 under the visionary leadership of President Emmerson Mnangagwa, we are cognisant of the fact that realising this goal will greatly depend on manpower equipped with African knowledge and skills to solve problems with innovations,” he said. “Zimbabwe now has a competence-based curriculum which equips learners with 21st century skills and places emphasis on programmes and activities that not only give knowledge, but also develop relevant skills, positive attitudes and values in order to prepare our children well as invaluable citizens,” he said. Mathema said the resources invested by Old Mutual into this quiz are not in vain, as a unique platform has been provided for the empowerment of learners and the potential transformation of individuals’ lives. “The quiz programme is an important component of the competence-based curriculum and will build leaners who are versatile and multi-dimensional in the things they are able to do after leaving school,” he said. Old Mutual group chief executive, Jonas Mushosho, through Old Mutual group marketing communications and brand manager, Lawrence Mawoni, promised a bigger and better competition next year as the company remains committed to youth development and empowerment ,which is a key cornerstone of corporate social responsibility. The Old Mutual schools quiz, launched in 1983, is the country’s longest running quiz competition that has groomed thousands of intellectuals over the years. 