The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
THE prize for the hottest Zimbabwean football attacking export of the year should go to 23-year-old forward Tino Kadewere who has set the French Ligue 2 on fire with his scoring prowess. Of course, his Warriors teammate, Marvelous Nakamba, generated the headlines after becoming only the fourth Zimbabwean player to feature in the English Premiership. But, statistics show Kadewere has been the stand-out figure going into the Christmas break.
Despite his struggles in the national team colours, the 23-year-old is doing his best to hoist the country’s flag high in foreign lands. Among all the Zimbabwean internationals playing in leagues dotted across the globe, Kadewere has scored the most number of goals so far — 16. The lanky forward is showing no signs of slowing down and could go into the Christmas break as the French Ligue 2 leading scorer after an impressive 16 goals from 18 starts for Le Havre. Kadewere has led the Golden Boot race in the French second-tier league from the start and is three goals clear of nearest rivals, Adrian Grbic of Austria, and French player Yoane Wissa. The Zimbabwe international has scored three times in his last four games, including the 1-2 defeat to Clermont Foot in their last outing. He has contributed more than half of his team’s goals this season, finding the target in 12 of the 18 games he has played.
Le Havre are the third most prolific team in the league with 28 goals.
Only leaders FC Lorient (32) and RC Lens (29) have scored more. The former Harare City man has scored two goals more, as an individual, compared to the whole team of FC Chambly (14) whom they play tomorrow to wrap up the first half of the season. His team, however, has remained in sixth place in the race for promotion.
They trail leaders FC Lorient by 11 points at the half way stage of the championship. The other Zimbabwean player who has had good returns is Knox Mutizwa at Golden Arrows in South Africa.
The former Highlanders star is the joint top-scorer in the ABSA Premiership with eight league goals to his credit.
Mutizwa is tied on top of the Golden Boot charts with Kaizer Chiefs’ Serbian hotshot Samir Nurkovic and Peter Shalulile of Highlands Park. England-based forward Bonne has also been a revelation at Charlton Athletic.
The former Leyton Orient striker only joined Charlton in the summer, but has caught the eye with six goals in 15 Sky Bet Championship appearances this season. Another Warriors hopeful, Admiral Muskwe, has featured regularly in the Leicester City Under-23 side scoring five times in 13 outings. But this has been a particularly bad year for Warriors’ skipper, Knowledge Musona, who has not featured in club football since the season opened at Belgian giants Anderlecht. Meanwhile, defender Alec Mudimu has high expectations following his move to Moldova where he hopes to play more competitive football with the country’s champions Sherrif Tiraspol.
Mudimu moved from Welsh side Cefn Druids recently. He is expected to join Zoran Zekic’s side for the upcoming training camp next month.
“I always wanted to prove myself in the Europa League. We worked and achieved participation in this tournament.
“There is a participation in the Champions League ahead and I am doubly glad about this. “It is an honour for me to represent Sheriff at such a level,” he told Sherrif’s website.
Mudimu is expected to officially join his new Moldovian side on January 20 on a three-year contract.