The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
FOLLOWING their 4-1 victory over Namibia in the quarter-finals yesterday at the Copa Coca-Cola Africa Cup tournament in Thika, Kenya, Zimbabwe’s coach Pathius Mauto still wants his men to up their game. Zimbabwe got off to a flying start on Monday, winning their Pool A games against defending champions Kenya and Mozambique. They then beat Namibia 4-1 yesterday with the goals from Luke Musikiri, who scored a brace, Enasio Pereso and Alfa Chiwashira. Coach Mauto was still not happy with the team’s approach to yesterday’s game.
“It was a very poor start because the boys were very relaxed thinking that it was going to be a walkover match,’’ he said.
“But they got shocked by Namibia, who were showing more hunger for the win and giving everything they have.
“We managed to score three goals in the first half but I wasn’t impressed with the way we played. “Second half was better because we made Namibia chase the ball all the time but we only managed to score one goal.’’
Zimbabwe are up against Zambia today, who thrashed Angola 8-1. “Tomorrow we will be facing Zambia, which will be a good match. But, all we need to do is to play fast football because the Zambians are physically stronger than us. “We don’t need any contact with them and also getting an early goal will give us an upper hand. “They have been seeing the results of Zambia and we are staying together, they know that they need to raise the game tomorrow. He will be hoping the likes of Musikiri, who has been influential in the Zimbabwean side, scoring six goals in three matches, will fire again. The coach said it has been a learning curve for him. “As a coach, it’s my first time coaching the national team side, getting a lot of experience because you will be facing different countries, which play different types of football.’’ In other quarter-final matches Tanzania dismissed Uganda 6-2 and Kenya beat Botswana 1-0.
Tanzania and Kenya will meet in the other semi-final match today.