The Herald Patrick Chitumba Midlands Bureau Chief
SIX people including a minor have died, five of them of the spot, in a head-on collision involving a Toyota Hiace and a Honda Jazz with South African registration plates at the 58 kilometre peg near Chachacha Business Centre in Shurugwi yesterday. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the accident, which he said happened about a kilometre from a roadblock where traffic police had reportedly reprimanded the Honda Jazz driver for speeding and negligent driving. He said three passengers, two from the Toyata Hiace and one from the Honda Jazz, escaped with different degrees of injuries. “I can confirm that six people died, five on the spot in a road traffic accident involving Toyota Hiace and Honda Jazz vehicles,” said Asst Comm Nyathi. “The accident happened at the 58km peg along the Gweru-Masvingo Highway near Chachacha Business Centre around 10am. “The Toyota Hiace was coming from Masvingo while the Honda Jazz with South African number plates, was headed towards Masvingo when the accident happened.” Asst Comm Nyathi said preliminary investigations indicate that the driver of the Honda Jazz encroached onto the lane of the oncoming Toyota Hiace while attempting to overtake another vehicle on a curve. “The Honda Jazz encroached onto the lane of the Toyota Hiace resulting in a head-on collision. Both vehicles veered off the road and landed on their roofs. “Two passengers from the Toyota Hiace died on the spot while three people including the driver in the Honda Jazz also died on the spot. “A minor died on admission to Shurugwi District Hospital,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi said three of those who escaped with injuries are admitted to Gweru Provincial Hospital (two) and Shurugwi District Hospital. Asst Comm Nyathi said it was unfortunate that most of the accidents were caused by human error. “We hear that the driver of the Honda Jazz had allegedly been stopped at a roadblock about a kilometre from where the accident occurred and had been reprimanded for being reckless as he was speeding. “The police will continue doing their job, but we also call upon the drivers to follow stipulated road rules. Speed thrills, but it kills,” he said.