The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
THE 69th edition of the International Miss World pageant will be hosted in London, organisers of the event have revealed. Chief executive officer of The Miss World Organisation, Julia Morley, yesterday announced that 130 contestants will vie for the crown in London for a three-week festival and the Miss World Finale set for December 14 at ExCeL in London. He participating contestants are scheduled to arrive in London on November 20 before competing in a series of fast-track events that guarantee them a place in the top 30.  “These include Multimedia, Sport, Talent, Top model, Head to Head Challenge and Beauty With a Purpose and taking them on a journey across some of the London’s most iconic landmarks taking in its rich culture and heritage,” she said. Morley added:“London is the greatest city in the world to visit. It is where Miss World started in 1951 as part of the Festival of Britain celebrations and this year, we are going to put on the best show ever. “Each year we bring together women from around the world with a shared sense of purpose. For many of them this will be their first visit to London, and they are all so excited. They can’t wait to share their traditions, the music they enjoy, the food they eat and the astonishing range of ‘Beauty With A Purpose’ charitable projects they are working on.” The ‘Beauty With A Purpose’ global humanitarian programme is at the heart of Miss World. This global platform inspires and empowers thousands of young women from around the world to use their talents to raise awareness and funds in aid of humanitarian causes that make real and lasting tangible differences to the poor, sick and disadvantaged. The highly-anticipated Miss World final show will be broadcast globally to over 150 countries. Vanessa Ponce de León is the reigning Miss World. Zimbabwe is currently searching for a representative at the global showcase with 35 having qualified for the initial stage. The selection for the final contestants is still in the process.