The Herald Crime Reporter
GOVERNMENT has applauded the police for assuming the Southern African Regional Police Chiefs Cooperation Organisation (SARPCCO) chairmanship saying it was an honour bestowed on Zimbabwe. Police Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga recently took over the rotating chairmanship from his Zambian counterpart Inspector-General Kakoma Kangaja. SARPCCO is the primary force in Southern Africa for the prevention and fighting of cross-border crime. Sending off a 184-member delegation of sportspersons to Angola for SARPCCO games, Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage secretary Mr Melusi Matshiya hailed the police for the new role. He said the assumption of the chairmanship coincided with this year’s SARPCCO games slated for next week. “Coincidentally, this year’s SARPCCO games come in the same year when the ZRP is scheduled to assume the SARPCCO chairmanship. It is an honour for the organisation and the country. “Hence retaining the coveted SARPCCO Trophy would be a befitting start to the ZRP’s leadership of the regional police group.” He urged the teams to be disciplined and to fly the country’s flag higher during the tour. “Be disciplined at all times. Remember the reason why you are in Angola. This is the opportunity to shine. Raise the Zimbabwe flag high with distinguished honour and pride,” Mr Matshiya said. Comm-Gen Matanga also said sports offers opportunities for dialogue, camaraderie and above all, facilitates the exchange of ideas in the spirit of mutual respect and fair play. “Such important aspects if applied beyond sporting arenas can help contribute to a better world and indeed, better Zimbabwe,” he said. Comm-Gen Matanga said he took pride in the fact that they were not sending an ordinary group, but the “Lions” of SARPCCO. Formed in Zimbabwe in 1995, the organisation has firmly established itself as a benchmark for international police cooperation. The regional organisation is supported by the Sub-Regional Bureau of Interpol in Harare which coordinates its activities and programmes. A delegation of 184 sportspersons is expected to leave the country next week for the 10th edition of the SARPCCO bi-annual games slated for Luanda, Angola.