The Herald Prosper Ndlovu recently  in Lusaka, Zambia
PRESIDENT Mnangagwa’s transformative leadership style has brought hope for the people of Zimbabwe after years of economic stagnation, a senior academic from the University of Zambia (UNZA) has said. Professor Kumar Baboo, one of the top executives at UNZA, told delegates who witnessed the conferment of Special Honorary PhD Law degrees to President Mnangagwa and his Zambian counterpart Edgar Lungu in Lusaka at the weekend that Zimbabwe, under the new dispensation, was on the right path towards prosperity. “President Mnangagwa is a symbol of strength and sacrifice, loyalty and hard work. His contributions have raised hope for the people of Zimbabwe,” said Prof Baboo. He said since taking over from former president Robert Mugabe in November 2017, President Mnangagwa has exhibited progressive leadership qualities shown by his desire to unite Zimbabweans and opening the democratic space. Prof Baboo said the world was watching with interest developments in Zimbabwe and has noted how President Mnangagwa has quickly instituted the ongoing economic and political reform agenda meant to foster long-term progress in the country. He said the region and the international community at large has noted the process leading to last year’s harmonised elections was smooth and that, despite the isolated violent setbacks after the elections in Harare, President Mnangagwa had managed to ensure an open, free and fair voting process. “He has ushered in a new Zimbabwe called the ‘Second Republic’, has restored the rule of law and enhanced international re-engagement, which has ended years of isolation. He has brought Vision 2030 of an upper middle income economy and has declared Zimbabwe as open for business and a destination of choice,” said Prof Baboo. He said it was also commendable that within a space of less than two years at the helm, President Mnangagwa has held several high-level bilateral engagements with critical members of the global community across the divide including talks with China, Russia, Belarus and the World Economic Forum among others. Prof Baboo said such efforts were a demonstration that Zimbabwe was keen to change her past status and be an active and prosperous member of the global family of nations. “He (Mnangagwa) has proved to be a listening President who envisions a new Zimbabwe and Africa. He has become a servant leader who desires economic prosperity for his country. During his short tenure as Head of State, he has been steadfast in brokering unity and peace and has brought a lot of people to the dialogue table,” he said. Prof Baboo said the positive leadership qualities by President Mnangagwa had been evident in the manner he discharged his duties during the days of the liberation struggle, where he played a key role alongside other freedom fighters, as well as his assignments in Government after independence where he held various ministerial positions until he became Vice President in 2014. UNZA Vice Chancellor Prof Luke Mumba has said their institution will always hold Presidents Mnangagwa and Lungu in high esteem as they have lifted the university’s profile high and have become leaders of the two great nations at the same time. Both leaders are alumni members of UNZA and have held several senior positions in their parties and Government before being voted into power.