The Herald Sports Reporter
THE Deputy Minister for Youth, Sports, Arts and Recreation, Yeukai Simbanegavi, will be leading the Zimbabwe delegation at the Vitality Netball World Cup which starts in Liverpool, England, next week. Team Zimbabwe left for England yesterday with a strong delegation comprising the playing staff, technical officials, supporters and Government officials to provide the morale boost. The Government is involved heavily in the funding of the trip. And in a press statement yesterday, the Government said: “In the spirit of transparency and accountability, Government therefore wishes to inform the public that the Zimbabwe Delegation to the Netball World Cup comprises 54 Zimbabweans that include the players, officials, technical teams, supporters and the media. “The term delegation refers to Zimbabweans who are accredited to have official access to the grounds and events at the World Cup. “The breakdown of the Zimbabwe Delegation is as follows: Fourteen players who are funded by the Government of Zimbabwe Six players who are on a player development programme and are being funded by the Zimbabwe Netball Association Four Government officials (1 Ministry of Youth, Sports, Arts and Culture; 1 Ministry of Finance and Economic Development; 2 Sports and Recreation Commission) who are funded by the Government of Zimbabwe. Technical Team comprising seven officials that include medics, dietician, team mangers; funded by the Government of Zimbabwe. Six Zimbabwe Netball Association officials who are funded by the Association. One Statistician who is funded by the Zimbabwe Netball Association Three Diaspora members of the Zimbabwe Gems Fund Raising Committee who are self-funding their expenses One member of the Zimbabwe Gems Organising Committee, who will also be attending the International Netball Federation meetings that are running during the World Cup. Seven self-funding supporters Five self-funding members of the media,” read the statement from the Government yesterday. The team will later be joined by Minister of Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Sithembiso Nyoni, Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry, Prisca Mupfumira, who will be in England on other Government Business. Mupfumira will take advantage of the Zimbabwe Gems presence in England to embark on a road-show with them as the part of the tourism campaign and promotion of brand Zimbabwe and tour. “As Zimbabweans, let us once again unite in supporting the Zimbabwe Gems as they fly the country’s flag high at the Netball World Cup. We say all the best to the Zimbabwe Gems,” read the statement.