The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
VINCE Hogg has returned as interim Managing Director of Zimbabwe Cricket as the interim board installed last month by the Sports and Recreation Commission put its house in order before the International Cricket Council annual conference set for England next week. Hogg, a former national team cricket player, was previously the Managing Director for two years during one of Zimbabwe Cricket’s turbulent time at the turn of the millennium. The appointment was made following a board meeting by the interim committee last week. Hogg, replaces Givemore Makoni who was suspended by the Sports Commission along with the entire ZC board for disregarding a directive to stop an elective AGM pending investigations into the affairs of the association last month. The 66-year-old administrator is expected to work hand in hand with the interim board led by former ZC chairman David Ellman-Brown. “Vincent Richard Hogg has been appointed by the Zimbabwe cricket interim committee as the interim Managing Director of Zimbabwe cricket with immediate effect. This follows the interim committee’s board meeting on Thursday 4th July, 2019. “Vince Hogg, a former Zimbabwe national cricket team player, was previously the Managing Director of Zimbabwe Cricket for two years ending August 2004. He brings with him a wealth of experience in cricket and general corporation administration,” read a statement from the Sports Commission. Hogg quit his post in a huff after running the show from 2002 to 2004. His appointment is in preparation for Zimbabwe cricket’s participation at next week’s ICC annual conference. Zimbabwe are on the agenda at this gathering in the wake of the standoff that followed the decision by the Sports Commission to suspend ZC officials led by Tavengwa Mukuhlani. The suspended board members are challenging the legality of the decision and have since appealed to the Administrative Court. They also filed an urgent High Court application to have the suspensions set aside and be reinstated until the Administrative Court makes their determination on the case. ICC have since withheld funding for ZC because of the bickering and will determine whether the move by SRC to suspend the board and replace with an interim one constitutes government interference. This puts Zimbabwe’s Membership status at the stake at this meeting as ICC have zero tolerance on government interference. The Sports Commission has said the interim committee will make a presentation at the conference. “The International Cricket Council has indicated that the interim committee may attend the ICC meeting set for the 18th July, 2019 for the purposes of making a representation to the ICC board before Zimbabwe’s Membership status is decided upon,” read the Sports Commission statement.