The Herald Bulawayo Bureau
Zanu-PF Matabeleland South Province has selected the widow of Mangwe MP Obedingwa Mguni, Hlalani, to represent the party in the upcoming by-election in the constituency. The Nomination Court will sit on July 26, while the by-election will take place on September 7. Cde Mguni beat four other candidates that had submitted their applications for the post that was previously held by her husband who died last month at Harare’s West End Clinic after a short illness. Speaking in an interview after a Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) meeting on Thursday, Zanu-PF Matabeleland South chairman Cde Rabelani Choeni said the committee had deliberated and unanimously agreed that Mrs Mguni was the most suitable candidate to represent the party. “We had an emergency PCC meeting following the death of Cde Obedingwa Mguni,  who was the MP for Mangwe constituency,” he said. “A proclamation was made for us to select someone who will go to the Nomination Court and then represent us in the by-election. “We had five candidates, namely Hlalani Madlala (Mrs Mguni), Sindisiwe Nleya, Priscilla Moyo, Sikhalaza Ndlovu and Jabulani Edward Dube. We went through their CVs and realised that three of them didn’t meet the necessary requirements which left us with two candidates, Mrs Nleya and Mrs Mguni. “We then discussed and came to a conclusion as the PCC that Mrs Mguni was the appropriate person to represent us in the by-election.” Cde Choeni said Cde Nleya is currently Mangwe Rural District Council chairperson and the committee concluded that this would interfere with her new role if selected. He said the party was confident that Cde Mguni would represent it well and ensure that Zanu-PF retains the seat. “We will not be holding primaries as we have selected one candidate,” said Cde Choeni. “From here we will wait for the Nomination Court and from there we move to the ground and campaign vigorously so that we retain the Mangwe seat. “We have confidence in Mrs Madlala (Cde Mguni) as she has been working closely with her late husband in the constituency as he was initiating development in the area. However, our success in retaining the seat doesn’t depend on her only, but we will support her fully. In order for us to win we have to work tirelessly and that’s what we will do.” In an interview, Cde Mguni expressed her gratitude to the party for entrusting her with such an important task. She said she was committed to bringing development to the constituency just like her husband was doing.