The Herald Tadious Manyepo in Wedza
MEMBER of Parliament for Wedza South, Tinoda Machakaire, says there is need for a whole-hearted approach to tap raw rural talent if Zimbabwe is to do well internationally. The politician has poured a cool $400 000 into a six-week long sports festival currently underway in his constituency. The tournament, which includes soccer, pool, cycling and netball as well as other traditional games like nhodo, tsoro and hwishu, among others, entered the knock out phase over the weekend. Finals are scheduled for Goneso in a fortnight. This is the first time such an amount has been put into a rural competition in Zimbabwe. Machakaire, who recently made headlines after parting with US$10 000 for a Warriors jersey ahead of the AFCON finals, said it was everyone’s duty to support sport in the often overlooked rural areas. “Look, village folk is full of talent but they mostly lack the much-needed exposure. “We haven’t done this out of pride but my heart bleeds for this underrated group. “We are all aware that there is undoubted talent which lie idle in the rural areas so this is a way to try and expose them to scouts who have always been in attendance since the games started from ward level,” said Machakaire. Chairman for the festival, Foster Kamanga, said the initiative was beneficial to the rural dwellers in several ways. “Besides giving the talented youngsters an opportunity to showcase their talent before so many scouts, we are very sure the festival has helped in eliminating vice in the villages. “People believe youths in the urban areas are the only ones who can abuse drugs, steal and engage in other social ills. “By occupying them with pro active initiatives like this festival, we believe it will go a long way in eliminating all that,” said Kamanga. “We have also made sure no one from the village is left out as even the elderly have something to compete for in their own. “We have decided to reward those skilled in traditional games as well with nhodo, tsoro, pada, raka-raka and hwishu being part of it”. Machakaire already has plans to come up with netball, pool and football teams which will play in the professional leagues while other short-listed talented youngsters are set to join several academies dotted across the country. Former Premiership players Norest Chidhoma and Tafadzwa Maingire; and Northern Region Division One side Grain Tigers’ midfielder David Redhiyoni, a Premiership title winner with Gunners, are taking part in this festival as a way of inspiring upcoming talent. Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa, Triangle gaffer Taurai Mangwiro and the legendary Moses “Bambo” Chunga are scheduled to grace the finals along with other luminaries.