The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS coach Tonderai Ndiraya thinks the three-week Castle Lager Premiership football break re-energised his boys and is now looking for better performances as they return to the pitch tomorrow against Chapungu United at Rufaro. The local Premiership was forced to take their mid-season break before even reaching the halfway stage because of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Egypt. The domestic Premiership will resume today with early kick-off matches across the country. All the games will start at 2pm to avoid counter attractions with the quarter-finals of the AFCON tournament. Before the break, Dynamos had lost to Highlanders at Barbourfields. Previously they were held to a disappointing home draw by Manica Diamonds and Ndiraya wants his charges to turn around their fortunes. The good thing is that they have a clean bill of health in their camp following the recovery of Godfrey Mukambi, Cameroonians Claude Junior Ngahan and Vincent Mbega; and Ghanaian Robert Sackey, who is yet to make his debut for the Harare giants. “I think the break came at the right time. It has really given us time to push our boys and work on a number of things. Remember we were always mourning about the issue of fitness so it gave us time to push the boys to get to the levels that we want them to be. “At the same time it also gave us time to work on the technical and tactical side of the game. But, most importantly, it gave us time to run around and look for players. “It has also given us some rest and time to refocus. Remember we had lost our last match to Highlanders. It was a painful loss but I think we have been working hard on the mentality of the team to make sure they forget about that, refocus and continue with the journey that we are travelling,” said Ndiraya. “It is our wish that when we start games this weekend, we get the result that we want. It has been sometime we last collected maximum points at home. So we hope to use home advantage and get a positive result.”