The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Arts Reporter
GOSPEL musician Sebastain Magacha has thrown his weight behind the Women Thou Art Loosed (WTAL), a women empowerment movement, which is fighting gender inequality. Magacha said he will be participating during a three-day conference scheduled for Raylton Sports Club in Harare starting on July 26. “It is important for men to assist in such initiatives so that the contemporary society eliminates gender imbalances,” he said. “We have to work against any form of abuse against women and my wish is to have a great time working with WTAL in creating awareness. “I urge all men out there to play their part in supporting women for them to realise their dreams,” he added. Prophetess Beaullah Machiri, who is the brains behind WTAL, said it was worthwhile for other women to support the cause. “The WTAL conferences have proven to be not only a safe space for women, but are a non-judgmental and non-discriminatory space. “All women are welcome, irrespective of one’s social standing, race, religion, marital status or anything else that women find themselves worried about,” she said. Prophetess Machiri said women will share ideas with assistance from experts in the health, legal and life coaching sectors. She said the experts will give advice on law, health check-ups and build emotional intelligence. “Our hope is to see women come out of the conference empowered, healed and motivated. “We believe every woman is special. Where they are coming from is irrelevant. It is where God wants to take them that matters and we want to help women discover their purpose and unlock their potential. “We believe in women empowerment through the word of God and take them to their next level,” she said. Prophetess Machiri said guests from the United States of America, United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Botswana, Mozambique and Zambia have already confirmed their attendance. “We are calling for partners willing to provide transport to other women keen to attend the workshop,” she said.