The Herald Kundai Marunya Lifestyle Writer
He stormed on stage wearing only a black rob tied over his shoulder with leg rattles strapped on. His entry song “Mhai”, a hit of that time well resonates with what he stands for; love; appreciation of mother’s love to be specific. It is hard not to link his dressing, widely linked to spirit mediums who are traditional custodians of culture, standing as aides to God in creation and protection of people, to his song which celebrates mothers who also play active role in the creation and raising of children. At the time he first went on stage in this attire, some five years ago, Zimdancehall musician Tocky Vibez was ridiculed by many especially the “stylish” youths. They presumed that with the large amounts of money he was getting through music, he could dress better. Dressing better in their view meaning western styled designer clothes that most musicians of his genre and those who sang urban groves, hip hop and pop donned. But he boldly stood with his tradition, embedding it in his lyrics, stage wear and in music videos whenever he could. Identifying with tradition made him stand out in a genre most of the elderly had shunned for being vulgar both in lyrics and in dressing. He even won the heart of legends in local music; Dr Thomas Mapfumo and the late national hero Dr Oliver Mtukudzi, both of whom named him among the greats of his time. His style did not go unnoticed among his peers most of whom are also revisiting their roots. Today, traditional attires and traditionally inclined lyrics have populated the local music scene and the local audience seems to readily accept their tradition. Thus, one of the most popular music video this year, “Kure” has its singer Ishan wearing a robe that is similar to that Tocky Vibez was ridiculed for a few years ago, only differing in colour. Selmor Mtukudzi has fused elements of tradition in her videos notably in “Hangasa” where Jerusarema Mbende dance is employed. She also features a sangoma in “Vakanaka Vakarara”, a song that exposes the darkest side of hate. Jah Prayzah is another artiste who has been doing very well to depict tradition. A Tonga culture inspired “Dzamutsana” video is one of his most recent work that revisits tradition. Shot in a rural setup in Binga, showing various traditional activities with the song laced with idioms, the video has won the hearts of many, getting over 4,3 million views on YouTube in the past eight months. His discography is a tale of a dedicated African, unashamed of his tradition. He sings of spirit medium consultation in “Hakata” while the lobola culture and many other social issues are at the centre of his music. In “Goto” Jah Prayzah out-rightly sang a traditional song associated with appeasing spirit mediums at ceremonies. In the song’s performance many have sworn to have witnessed the musician and other fans become possessed. Rich with deep Shona lyrics, coupled with traditional instrumentation and good visuals, Jah Prayzah has become a darling not only of Zimbabwe but the continent at large. Same as Jah Prayzah, Zimdancehall star, Killer T also alludes to tradition in “Rovai Makuva” a song that speaks of the culture of pacifying the dead to return and protect the living. These are a few on many musicians who have touched base with tradition. Ethnomusicologist Tichareva Rozvi said tradition has a uniqueness that appeals to many people. “Tradition has a uniqueness that appeals to many people. Its authenticity has always drawn even foreigners thus we have mbira musicians like the late Chiwoniso Maraire, Dr Thomas Mapfumo and Mbuya Stella becoming world phenomenon,” he said. One is obliged to agree with Rozvi, noting that most of locals who turned into international stars have elements of tradition in their music among them the aforementioned trio. Hope Masike and afro-fusion band Mokoomba have also gone to conquer the world, touring for months on end, sharing stages with world acclaimed stars in the form of Sean Paul, and Salif Keita among many others. It is not surprising that the only Zimbabweans in the music Hall of Fame in United States are Mokoomba, Tuku and Mapfumo, all who have strong elements of tradition in their music. To Rozvi, popularity of traditionally linked music and videos locally is a reflection of society. “It’s a reflection that as a nation we are scrapping off westernisation of culture going back to our roots. “We are readily accepting our ancestors and relishing in the tradition they  entrusted us to pass to generations to come,” he said. Through music, traditional culture and societal values are reintroduced, kept and spread. Though foreign styles, especially those from the west are still considered fashionable, a growing trend, embraced by big names in local music will guarantee survival of our tradition.