The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE’S African Nations Championships (CHAN) football qualifying campaign has been delayed after their opening fixture against Mauritius, scheduled for the George V Stadium in Curepipe yesterday, was postponed ostensibly due to a waterlogged pitch. The game will now be played today and kick-off time is still 12:30pm Zimbabwean time. Reports indicate the game was clandestinely moved to today, paving way for the conclusion of the sporting extravaganza that was being held in that country. The Warriors were supposed to start life without the technical expertise of their most successful coach, Sunday Chidzambwa, who resigned last week, leaving former lieutenants Rahman Gumbo and Lloyd Mutasa to lead the team. The country’s home-grown talent was supposed to start their continental sojourn in Port Louis yesterday, but were allegedly restricted by the torrent rains in Mauritius. A pitch inspection was done moments before the game in the Indian Ocean island before the pitch was deemed unplayable and the subsequent rescheduling of the match to today. ZIFA spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela confirmed the rearranged date for the fixture and venue for the first round qualifier. “The first round of the CHAN qualifier has been postponed to tomorrow (today) at 12.30pm due to a waterlogged pitch. “The match has been moved to an alternative venue and we expect that these changes will not affect the team in doing the business on the field of play,” said Gwesela. It is yet to be established if the conditions of the grounds in Mauritius today will have improved, to be conducive for a game of football to be played. On Saturday some games were rescheduled after the venue was deemed unplayable again, and an alternative smaller venue was used. “We are sorry to announce that the final between Mauritius and Reunion that was scheduled this (Saturday) afternoon at New George V stadium, was cancelled due to bad weather and because of the bad condition of the football field,” reads part of the statement by the Mauritius Football Association. “The match was postponed until tomorrow, July 28 at the Auguste Vollaire stadium in Flacq. “The kick-off will be given at noon. Football fans are advised that tickets originally scheduled for today’s game at New George V Stadium will be valid for tomorrow’s game.” After the same venue which was scheduled to host the Warriors match was deemed unplayable a day before, concerns have been raised as to why an alternative was not put in place in time. Reports from Mauritius suggest that the waterlogged George V Stadium was a blessing in disguise for the Mauritius Football Association which was reluctant to stage the game yesterday. Mauritius is hosting the 10th edition of the multi-sport Indian Ocean Island Games, which started on July 19 and ended yesterday. Playing a CHAN qualifier against Zimbabwe yesterday could have diverted the attention of the games which were coming to an end in that country.