The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe is keen on retaining the services of veteran defender Method Mwanjali, whose contract with the Harare football giants is set to expire next Monday. Chitembwe, who returned to his duties after a month of speculation over his whereabouts, said they need to keep the core of their squad intact to compete for this year’s Premiership title. Mwanjali is one of the key players in the Green Machine squad and his experience has helped steady the side, almost half-way through the season. Makepekepe, however, recently lost speed merchant Gabriel Nyoni to South Africa’s Maritzburg United and Chitembwe is keen to maintain his side by bringing in good replacements. Nyoni has officially joined the South African ABSA Premiership side after making the grade at the trials last week. “I think it will be a big void to fill and we hope to use proceeds generated from Nyoni’s move to South Africa to lure some new players during this transfer window period. “We are also on the verge of renewing the contracts of some of the players which had expired and by that we can talk of Method Mwanjali who has shown his interest to hang up his boots at the Green Machine, a team that helped him join Mamelodi Sundowns at the peak of his career,” Chitembwe said. The 2016 championship-winning coach, whose absence at CAPS United last month sparked speculations about his future at the club, returned this week and took the team through their paces at the National Sports B Arena. The former CAPS United midfielder said he was not feeling well and has now recovered to continue with his duties. Makepekepe will face Yadah Stars at home at the National Sports Staium on Sunday in their next encounter, a match they need to win so as to boost their morale ahead of the Harare Derby against Dynamos in their next match. They are currently third on the log standings with 23 points, four behind log leaders FC Platinum. Club president Farai Jere said they have not revised their target to win this year’s Premiership title despite a recent dip in form which had seen them going on a four-match win-less streak. “Our challenge is to do well in the next coming games and if we manage to collect points then we will be okay. “Our next three matches are very crucial in every aspect as they will shape us in as far as the championship race is concerned. A win against Yadah will be good ahead of the Dynamos clash and we will also be preparing for another tough encounter against FC Platinum. “We need to pick up points so that we cover the gap between us and those in the lead as it is not that big. We are still in there, a few points separate us,” said Jere. CAPS United next opponents Yadah have been doing well after they managed to beat Chapungu, Highlanders and recently drew 0-0 with Black Rhinos.