The Herald Bongani Ndlovu Bulawayo Bureau
BIGGER and better is what was promised. And this is what was delivered during the Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards held at the Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre on Saturday night. Touted as the biggest dress up event in the city, the who’s who of Bulawayo came out in droves wearing outlandish, jaw-dropping and statement making outfits, bringing the city to a standstill. The red carpet was the centre of attraction where the fashion police scrutinised what each person was wearing.However, this was a precursor of what was going to happen during the night. The huge venue, although not filled to the brim, was full of excitement and great performances on stage. Artistes in their varied ensembles and individually, never put a foot wrong as they made it their mission to entertain the crowd. Industry and Commerce Minister Mangaliso Ndlovu, National Arts Council of Zimbabwe chairperson Nicholas Moyo and United Refineries CEO Busisa Moyo were among the top dignitaries. On the winners’ front, the highlight was Novuyo-Seagirl, who won the Song of the Year for her track “AEIOU”. She also took home the outstanding female artiste award while Iyasa made a clean sweep of the dance awards, scooping the outstanding male dancer, female dancer and arts ensemble awards. Filmmaker Daniel Lasker walked away with two gongs — Outstanding TV/Film Director and Outstanding Film for the Short Movie, “The Man”. Cal Vin won the Outstanding Male Artiste Award while Asaph, who had a trailblazing 2018, was crowned hip-hop king for the second year running at the awards. A first happened; there was a tie in the Outstanding Actor in Theatre Award where Cedrick Msongelwa and Ronald Sigeca (Zandezi) could not be separated. Winky D walked away with Outstanding Arts Personality from outside Bulawayo. The category was controversial caused after Oskido rejected the nomination. It was also befitting that the awards, which celebrate arts effort, saw Lovemore Majaivana getting the Lifetime Achievement Award. Majaivana’s music has been in the social fabric of the city and across the country.    Below is the full list of winner at the awards. Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards Winners List (2019) Music Awards Dance Awards Theatre Awards Schools Awards Visual Arts Awards Media Awards Film And Television Awards Spoken Word Awards Literary Arts Awards Fashion & Lifestyle Awards Dj Awards Special Awards 