The Herald Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter
THE United States of America yesterday handed over US$4,7 million towards the provision of clean water and sanitation, shelter and settlement support, for victims of Cyclone Idai. The money was handed over to acting Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, July Moyo who is also the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing by US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Brian Nichols. Minister Moyo expressed gratitude to the US for the donation saying it would go a long way in the recovery and rebuilding of the affected areas in Manicaland and Masvingo. “I wish to recall that soon after Cyclone Idai hit Zimbabwe in March this year, the USA made an immediate initial contribution of US$100 000 through GOAL Zimbabwe which was aimed at supporting 36 400 individuals in the cyclone-affected areas of Manicaland province with temporary shelter, water purification chemicals and soap. “In April, the US government through the US Agency for International Development office of Food for Peace, provided an additional contribution of US$2,5 million to immediate food needs in the most affected areas of Manicaland province,” he said. The minister said the USAID in collaboration with the World Food Programme provided food assistance that include over 2 000 metric tonnes of sorghum, cooking oil and fortified cereals to approximately 133 000 individuals affected by the cyclone. “Zimbabwe is greatly humbled by the solidarity and support received from Zimbabweans, both local and abroad, private sector, civil society, well-wishers, countries including the USA and international organisations. “This support has been critical to providing emergency relief to individuals and families affected by the cyclone and to supporting the Government of Zimbabwe’s efforts towards recovery of the communities and rebuilding of infrastructure and services in the affected areas,” Minister Moyo   said. He added that Government was also working with the UN Resident Coordinator on an update of the country’s humanitarian appeal as a result of the drought and for post-cyclone reconstruction with the appeal set to be launched on August 6. In his remarks Ambassador Nichols said his government had contributed at least US$8 million to Cyclone Idai victims. “This assistance more than doubles the assistance to Cyclone Idai victims. Combined with our earlier contributions we have doubled our contributions to assist Cyclone Idai victims to more than US$8 million making the USA the largest bilateral donor for Cyclone Idai victims,” he said. He said the money would go to victims in Chipinge and Chimanimani. The money would be distributed through various NGOs that include GOAL, Mercy Corps, Catholic Relief Services, World Vision, Care International and International Relief Committee. “We are convinced that the people of Zimbabwe are resilient, talented and energetic and that they will fully recover from the tragic events this years caused by Cyclone Idai,” Ambassador Nichols said.