The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
TelOne ……………………0) 1 Harare City ……………. (1) 1 BULAWAYO referee Nkosikona Moyo’s controversial decisions took some gloss off this otherwise absorbing Castle Lager Premiership football tie at Luveve yesterday. Harare City had to play with a man down after midfielder Moses Muchenje was shown a straight red card for clashing with TelOne goalkeeper Raphiel Pitisi after the goal-minder had saved his penalty on the half-hour mark. Ishmael Wadi had thrust the visitors ahead in the ninth minute. And when an opportunity to stretch that slender lead availed itself after Wadi was fouled inside the box, the former Bulawayo City man saw his kick from the penalty mark saved. But that was before Moyo ordered a re-take after adjudging that Pitisi had encroached before the kick had been taken. Muchenje took the responsibility this time around but again, Pitisi dived the right way to thwart the effort back into play and as Muchenje desperately attempted to beat him to the ball, they clashed resulting in the Harare City man being sent for an early shower. The hosts immediately took charge of proceedings but the capital club held on until the half-time whistle. With TelOne coach Jairos Tapera desperate to avoid defeat, he introduced Hillary Bakacheza and he made an immediate impact as he engineered a move which saw Emmanuel Mandiranga nodding home a James Jam cross moments after the restart. Harare City stand-in coach Mark Mathe praised his charges for the spirited showing especially after Muchenje’s expulsion. Mathe is holding fort for his namesake and superior Harrison who is on compassionate leave. “The guys managed to hold their own and playing away from home with a man short, we take the point. “With a little bit of precision, we could have scored more but we take the point,” said Mathe. His TelOne counterpart Jairos Tapera was naturally disappointed. “We could have done better than picking a point at home against a team with a numerical deficiency,” he said. But the day was certainly spoiled by Moyo’s dubious officiating. He was at his worst especially in the second half where he denied the visitors what looked like clear penalties on two occasions.  Teams TelOne: R. Pitisi, T. Chikore, F. Bushiri, M. Chigumira, I. Zambezi, J. Jam, E. Zinyama (H. Bakachez,a 46th min), T. Hapazari (E. Chigora, 25th min) , E. Mandiranga, F. Nkala, B. Sibanda (F. Muza, 79th min) Harare City: M. Nyamupangedengu, M. Machazane, M. Diro-Nyenye, T. Chimwemwe, W. Mukanga, M. Muchenje, T. Tavengwa, K. Musharu (D. Chimwemwe, 84th min) , I. Wadi (A. Chihowa, 90th min) , M. Vengesai (T. Pio, 68th min)