The Herald Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter
Cabinet has set up an Inter-ministerial committee to look into the energy challenges facing the country and explore workable solutions aimed at alleviating the plight of ordinary people. This come as Energy and Power Development Minister Fortune Chasi is in South Africa, where he is meeting senior Government officials and representatives from Eskom to find ways for the resumption of power supply. This was said by Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa in Harare while briefing journalists on the 26 Cabinet Decision Matrix that was held on Tuesday. “Cabinet was briefed on the fuel and energy supply situation in the country by the Minster of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare, Dr Sekai Nzenza as the Acting Minister of Energy and Power Development. The Minister informed Cabinet that a total of 40 million litres of the combined fuel product is currently being pumped into the country. On the power front, it was reported that the Minister of Energy and Power Development is currently in South Africa for electricity supply negotiations with Eskom. The nation will be apprised of the outcome of the negotiations at an appropriate time,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. “In the meantime, Cabinet resolved to set up an Inter-Ministerial Committee to work closely with the Minister of Energy and Power Development in order to facilitate a collective approach in the resolution of the prevailing power and energy supply challenges.” The Inter-ministerial committee will be chaired by Minister Chasi, and has the following members, Ministers Mutsvangwa, Professor Mthuli Ncube (Finance and Economic Development), Mangaliso Ndlovu (Industry and Commerce) Prisca Mupfumira (Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry), Perrance Shiri (Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement), Kazembe Kazembe (Information Communication and Technology and Courier Services) and Winston Chitando (Mines and Mining Development.) Commenting on the energy situation, Dr Nzenza said the decision to constitute the Inter-Ministerial committee demonstrates Government commitment to alleviate the plight of vulnerable people. “Regarding the energy situation, Cabinet considered fully the situation affecting the country regarding energy. “One of the key outcomes to come out of Cabinet is the formation of the inter-ministerial committee. The whole purpose of the inter-ministerial taskforce is to enable Cabinet ministers from the key industries to put their heads together and find a workable solution to alleviate the situation we have now regarding the energy crisis,” said Dr Nzenza. “Regarding companies that are seriously affected, this inter-ministerial taskforce will also be seriously looking at solutions. “We hope that when Minister Chasi returns we expect some positive movements in helping us alleviate the current situation.” The country has been going through energy challenges both in terms of fuel and electricity owing to subdued foreign exchange availability. Fuel challenges has seen long queues at service stations while there have been long periods of load shedding owing to power shortages.