The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
PROMISING young striker Leroy Munyorovi recently became the latest Zimbabwean footballer to find a new home in Europe when he joined Slovakian side MŠK Púchov. MŠK Púchov, based in the Slovak town of Puchov, are currently playing in that country’s Second Division, which is below their Super League. And, they recently unveiled 20-year-old Munyorovi as one of their five new acquisitions for the 2019/20 season which kicked-off last weekend. Munyorovi, son of former Black Aces, Darryn T, Dynamos and Black Rhinos skilful left winger Mugove “Sugar” Munyorovi, moved to Slovakia after having started his professional career in Namibia before moving to the Czech Republic. And after spending a season playing in the Czech Republic, Leroy Munyorovi was quickly spotted by MŠK Púchov who offered him a long-term contract. The Slovak club recently confirmed the arrival of Leroy Munyorovi on their official website. “Positive information for our fans is that the progressive cadre MŠK stayed almost altogether and our A team has added several quality footballers. ‘’Five new players joined the team, FK Poprad came from Štefan Holíš, who comes from Nová Dubnica. Another boost is the offensive player Leroy Munyorovi, who last played the first league competition in Namibia and has experience from the second league in the Czech Republic.  ‘’In addition to our club was added defender Stanislav Lacko from MŠK Žilina and midfield Martin Vlcek from Inter Bratislava,” MŠK Púchov club manager Marek Šimácek told their official website last week. “… I am very pleased that we managed to follow the arrival of a youth representative under 20 years of age and our pupil Púchovský Marián Pišoj from AS Trencín, who has several first-league starts, just before the start. ‘’The cadre who fought to advance to the second league remained almost unchanged, which makes me very happy. ‘’And I strongly believe that the new players who joined the team will help the club to operate successfully in the second league competition.’’ And when contacted by The Herald soon after his arrival in Slovakia, Leroy said he was happy to have joined an ambitious club. “I’m in Slovakia now and  I’m enjoying every moment in my football career and of course the lifestyle here is just the same as in the Czech Republic.”