The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS believe their impressive comeback show in the Harare Derby last week has helped instil confidence in their players. They now go out in search of maximum points against Harare City in a Premiership match at Rufaro this afternoon. DeMbare team manager Richard Chihoro yesterday said they want to build on the 1-1 draw against CAPS United in a mid-table battle against their other crosstown rivals. “I think the boys are picking up and they demonstrated that in one of the toughest games we have played so far this season, against CAPS United. “But the derby is now behind us, it’s now history. We have to shift our attention to the upcoming assignments, bearing in mind that our next opponents Harare City are also a very good unit that has been together for some time now. “They have the experience in their ranks and they play passing football. We need to be wary of them,” said Chihoro. DeMbare will be without their inspirational skipper Edward Sadomba for the second week running. The veteran forward suffered concussion in their league game against Black Rhinos a fortnight ago. Tawanda Macheke is also still on the sidelines, while Evans Katema is away on national team duty in Mauritius for the CHAN qualifier. DeMbare coach Tonderai Ndiraya will still be hoping to get full value from his new signings — Godknows Murwira, Archford Gutu and Simba Nhivi — who scored the equaliser against CAPS United last week. Dynamos and Harare City are only separated by a point on the log standings. The Glamour Boys sit in 10th place with 20 points, while the Sunshine Boys are 11th. Harare City coach Mark Mathe, who was elevated into the hot seat following the departure of Mark Harrison recently, is keen to turn around the fortunes of the club after presiding over three draws since he took over the reins. “Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the work that Tonderai Ndiraya has been doing at Dynamos since his return. “He has managed to inculcate a strong mental culture in the players to believe in themselves and what it means to play for a big club like Dynamos. “I can tell you they are a very competitive outfit and we expect a tough game against them. I told my players that we would need to match their mental strength and the resolve they displayed against CAPS United last week,’’ said Mathe. Harare City have not won a game this season against any of their crosstown rivals after losing to Black Rhinos, CAPS United and Herentals. They drew against Yadah Stars last week. The Sunshine Boys have a number of former Dynamos players in their squad, including goalkeeper Maxwell Nyamupangedengu, Martin Vengesai, Walter Mukanga and their captain Marshal Machazane. But they will be without two of their key players Tatenda Tsumba and Wilfred Muvirimi through long-term injuries. Another exciting match is expected this afternoon when army side Black Rhinos host log leaders FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium. FC Platinum will miss the services of coach Norman Mapeza through sickness, while midfielder Never Tigere is away on national team duty. Giants CAPS United host Ngezi Platinum Stars at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. But there will be no Premiership football in Bulawayo after the local Premiership football leadership postponed three matches featuring Highlanders and Chicken Inn, who have more than three players in the CHAN squad which will face Mauritius tomorrow. Fixtures Today Chapungu v Manica Diamonds (Mandava) Black Rhinos v FC Platinum (NSS) Harare City v Dynamos (Rufaro) Tomorrow Mushowani Stars v ZPC Kariba (Trojan) CAPS United v Ngezi Platinum Stars (NSS) Hwange v TelOne (Colliery) *Postponed Matches Chicken Inn v Herentals (Luveve Stadium) Bulawayo Chiefs v Highlanders (Barbourfields) Triangle United v Yadah (Gibbo).