The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
ATHLETICS provided the largest contingent in Team Zimbabwe for the African Games next month in Morocco. The team was unveiled yesterday at the Sports and Recreation Commission offices. The World Relay team of Ngoni Makusha, Tatenda Tsumba, Dickson Kamungeremu and Dickson Kapandura headline the Zimbabwean delegation. Another sprinter, Kundai Maguranyanga, is also part of the team following a promising season in track and field events at the Drake University in the United States. The Games are set to run from August 16 to 31 with over 6 000 athletes from across the continent expected to compete in 29 sports disciplines. Athletics provided 15 participants from a total of 64 athletes to represent Team Zimbabwe in 12 sport codes. All these codes, with the exception of equestrian and chess, are using the Games as a qualifying event for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Announcing the team, chef de Mission Eugenia Chidhakwa, explained the criteria which was used to come up with the comprehensive list. She was flanked by the guest of honour Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Kirsty Coventry, ZOC president Admire Masenda and SRC commissioners Colleen de Jong and Allen Chiura. ‘’National Sport Associations had to demonstrate before the selection panel that they were up to date with the statutory and administrative requirements like audited financial reports, budgets for the ensuing year and calendar of events. ‘‘Some national associations were not compliant. Those who were not compliant fell by the way side. “National associations which met the above criteria were further required to demonstrate that they had the prospects of a podium finish. “The 2019 African Games are special in that they are being used as qualifiers for the Tokyo 2020 Games and, in that regard, it became apparent that we had to be convinced that the proposed athletes will make us qualify for these Games in 2020.’’ Team Zimbabwe Team Management Eugenia Chidhakwa (Chef de Mission), Martin Dururu (Deputy Chef de Mission Technical), Memory Pakati (Deputy Chef de Administration), Linnet Nyakunu (Admin Officer Temara), Arthur Mudarikwa (Admin Officer Casablanca), Masimba Mutemaringa (Admin Officer Sale), Kudakwashe Zata (Finance Director Rabat), Tawanda Chimbetete (Finance Treasury Casablanca), Levi Upenyu Mukono (team attache), Tirivashe Nheyembwa (media liaison officer). MEDICAL Kelvin Mupunga, Patience Maramba (doctors), Samson Chavhe (nurse), Runyararo Gwaze, Tendai Moyana, Farai Muguwe (physiotherapists). ARCHERY Rebecca Minnaar, Humayoon Poonja, Claire Estelle Minnaar (coach/manager). ATHLETICS Fortunate Chidzivo, Faith Dube, Dorothy Kavhumbura, Prissy Mpofu, Dickson Kamungeremu, Dickson Kapandura, Mieguery Kwenda, Kundai Maguranyanga, Ngoni Makusha, Norman Mukwada, Nyasha Mutsetse, Rodwell Ndlovu, Leon Tafirenyika, Moses Tarakinyu, Tatenda Tsumba, Lisimati Phakamile (coach), Precious Tarakino (coach), Manuel Mpofu (team manager). CHESS Linda Shaba, Colletah Wakuruwarewa, Rodwell Makoto, Emarald Mushore, Spencer Masango (coach). CYCLING Skye Janine Davidson, Stacey Kendal Hyslop, Andrew Chikwaka, Bright Chipongo, Nkulumo Dube, Peter Marufu, Advocate Phiri, Linda Helen Warren (coach), Norman Bourne (manager). EQUESTRIAN Charley Ann Crockart, Yara Mary Hanssen, Katie Evelyn Stock, Ricky Lee Kyle Johnstone. JUDO Janine Vimbai Kayaya, Christi Rose Maria Pretorious, Lazarus Arufandika, Majaji Tapiwa Musariri, Moses Mutendi, Sydney Mutero, Benjamin Mashayi, Pearson Stephen, Simbarashe Mashayi (coach). SHOOTING Michael Nicholson, Stuart Carl Sylvester. SWIMMING Robyn Stacie Lee, Nomvula Banele Mjimba, Ayman Fadi Khatoun, Tadiwa Tayali, Peter Charles Wetzlar, Sheelah Michelle Crause (coach/manager). TAEKWONDO Kudzai Chimombe, Spencer Kondo, Lazarus Maringehosi, Langton Chokwenda (coach/manager). TENNIS Valeria Shamiso Bhunu, Beverly Nyasha Matsiwe, Takanyi Garanganga, Benjamin Lock, Courtney John Ingram, Mehluli Don Ayanda Sibanda, Linsent Tafadzwa Chitiyo (coach/manager). TRIATHLON Laurelle Elizabeth Brown, Andie Leigh Kuipers, Mathew Anthony Denslow, Jordyn Liam Jacobs, Pamela Lynn Fulton. BEACH VOLLEYBALL Progress Gasa, Nyengeterai Guyo, Rufaro Douglas Choto, Keith Machakaire Vengai Nyaude (coach), Tawanda Sithole (team manager).