The Herald Makomborero Mutimukulu Senior Sports Reporter
THE battle lines had long been drawn and a few skirmishes had already erupted between opposing fans, but amid that charged atmosphere, Tonderai Ndiraya and Lloyd Chitembwe found time to share a joke and an embrace. There they were, two of Zimbabwe’s coaches of the future! Ndiraya, in his tracksuit and Chitembwe in a black coat, both reminding us that what was about to unfold at Rufaro was just a battle for football supremacy, not the amplification of animosity that divides Harare into blue and green. Heaven knows whether either coach meant the “all the best” statement they seemed to simultaneously utter just before the latest instalment of the Harare Derby exploded into life and refreshingly lived up to expectations at Rufaro on Sunday. Dynamos are never masters of planning but their decision to hand plastic flags to their faithful ensured the Vietnam end or the George Shaya end – whatever it is called – looked like it had been invaded by thousands of blue birds each time the flags were waved in unison. The Green Army took their place at the city end bay, like they always do, and they must have felt confident as the two teams warmed up. Theirs looked to be the better tools by a country mile. Even if they had tried the CAPS United fans would not have failed to notice that Dynamos skipper Edward Sadomba was missing and that a visibly overweight Archford Gutu had been thrust into the starting XI. So, there we were, the hitherto misfiring hosts facing their smooth passing visitors in front of a near capacity crowd. Past encounters have disappointed, proving to be all froth and no beer affairs. But not this one. It gave us some vintage stuff, reminded us that the Harare Derby did not lose its taste with the departure of such characters as Memory Mucherahohwa and Joe Mugabe. Joel Ngodzo, in his fancy pink boots, did business like a ballerina dancer, swivelling where others turn, massaging the ball where other pass it. With Gutu a tad too slow, Ngodzo had the freedom of Rufaro in the first half and was full value for the opener, a low free-kick that had DeMbare goalie Simba Chinani diving in vain. Dynamos newboy Evans Katema is not as smooth as Ngodzo but he was on point, holding up play well before being let down by teammates who seemed to take a lifetime to transition into attack. Katema teed up Simba Nhivi for the Dynamos equaliser and questions have to be asked about the whereabouts of Makepekepe goalie Prosper Chigumba during that passage of play. Evens Stevens at halftime! The second half belongs to the coaches, so goes the gospel in the football stands, and so we awaited the resumption of the match with glee. The second stanza provided no goals but plenty of drama. Phineas Bamusi – who had given Tinotenda Muringai a migrane in the first half – went head to head with Emmanuel Jalai in a battle of the speed merchants. While the youngsters chose artistry over artisanship, and always sought to arouse their fans, the veterans showed that simplicity is the ultimate sophistication. From the blue corner, skipper Jimmy Tigere and Nhivi did the basics well while from the Green corner skipper Hardlife Zvirekwi and Method Mwanjali played the match, and not the occasion, as demanded by Chitembwe. Even Stevens again at full time and no one felt robbed.  Not even CAPS United, who had a penalty appeal waved away, after Ngandu Mangala, who is increasingly looking like a fraud, had handled inside the Dynamos box. “We gave the fans what they wanted,” said Zvirekwi after the match. Talk that the Derby has lost colour and taste doesn’t sit well with us the current generation of players and we showed out there that we know what it means to play in this game.” Sadomba watched this one unfold from the VIP tribune, occasionally attending to a troublesome eye that came out the worst for wear when he was injured in the game against Black Rhinos. The veteran reckoned Dynamos had played like – wait for it – Dynamos. “This is us, this is how we are supposed to play every day. The Dynamos badge demands everything from us and the guys gave it their all.  “One would swear that Evans (Katema) has been at DeMbare for months. And with Uche (Gutu) as well as Zizou (Murwira) now in the mix I can foresee great things,” said the guy who was struggling to see properly on Sunday. Once in a while, the football gods bless us with affairs that make us appreciate where the iconic Bill Shankly was coming from when he famously said: “Some people think football is a matter of life and death. I assure you, it’s much more serious than that.” The Harare Derby was one such affair!