The Herald 16th JULY, 2019 Cabinet considered and approved the Memorandum of Agreement between ZCDC and Alrosa Overseas S.A. of Russia as submitted by the Minister of Finance and Economic Development. The Agreement will establish a mutually beneficial joint venture partnership for diamond exploration, mining and marketing, both in greenfield and brownfield projects. Benefits to be derived from the partnership will include the following: I may just advise that the Agreement between ZCDC and Alrosa has been signed a short while ago. Cabinet considered and approved the Constitutional Court Bill which was presented by the Minister of Justice, legal and Parliamentary Affairs. The Bill will govern the operations of the Constitutional Court. It is part of the alignment of laws to the Constitution and will also regulate the jurisdiction, powers, practice and procedure of the Court. The Bill provides for the composition, regulations, appeals from decisions of lower courts and other matters connected to the operations of the Constitutional Court. Once enacted, the Bill will provide and ensure an effective and efficient justice delivery system. Cabinet considered and approved the International Treaties Bill which was presented by the Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs. The Bill establishes a uniform procedure for the approval of international treaties by Cabinet and Parliament, and subsequent ratification by the President. It provides a mechanism for the publication or notification of such treaties. This will ensure that international treaties, including those having far-reaching consequences on the country’s domestic laws, are concluded only after the due notification of Parliament and the public. Cabinet expressed concern over the prolonged difficulties faced by citizens both within and outside the country, in obtaining passports and other identity documents. The Minister of Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage, then updated Cabinet on progress towards the resolution of the challenges as previously directed by His Excellency the President Cde E.D. Mnangagwa. On the basis of this, therefore we wish to advise the nation that work towards the return to normalcy in the production of the Zimbabwean passport is now at an advanced stage. All the necessary capital equipment is now in place while payment has already been made for the associated consumables. Cabinet has thus directed the responsible Minister to ensure that production of at least 3 000 passports a day commences within the next three to four weeks. This should be followed by measures to ensure that citizens can complete some aspects of the application process on-line, in keeping with the thrust of the ease of doing business reforms. Cabinet received a report by the Minister of Energy and Power Development on the country’s energy and power supply situation. On power, Cabinet notes with concern the ongoing prolonged load shedding caused by reduced power supplies mainly due to low water levels, and hence depressed electricity generation at Lake Kariba as well as reduced power imports and frequent breakdowns at the Hwange Thermal Power Station. To alleviate the situation on the power supply front, Cabinet resolved as follows: In this regard, special incentives shall be provided through duty waivers on imported solar equipment while it shall be mandatory for all new construction projects to be solar powered; Cabinet accordingly directed as follows: The responsible Ministry is already ceased with work on a lasting solution to the country’s fuel supply challenges. Cabinet received with satisfaction, the progress made on the 2 400 MW Batoka Hydro Project, where China Power and General Electronic were recently awarded the tender for the Project. Cabinet also wishes to advise the nation that discussions with ESKOM are continuing, with a view to unlocking power supplies imports therefrom.