The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
MANICA Diamonds defender Partson Jaure will seek a repeat of the 2014 Africa Nations Championship script when he leads the Warriors in battle against Mauritius tomorrow in the first leg of the first round qualifiers. The match takes place at the New George V Stadium in Curepipe. Kick-off is 12:30pm Zimbabwean time. Jaure was part of the team in 2013, when Zimbabwe visited this Indian Ocean island nation under Ian “Dibango” Gorowa and trounced the hosts 3-0 in the first leg, first round clash. The 29-year-old is one of the survivors of the successful campaign which ended in Zimbabwe reaching the semi-finals in the tournament in South Africa in 2014, resulting in many players, including himself, landing contracts in the Supa Diski. The Warriors need a positive start to make the job easier when they return home for the second leg at Barbourfields next week. Interim coach Rahman Gumbo, who stepped into the hot seat following the resignation of Sunday Chidzambwa during the week, is aware of the pressure back home. Gumbo and his assistant Lloyd Mutasa were part of the team at AFCON. They picked up an 18-member squad that included mostly Warriors fringe players and experienced hands like Ariel Sibanda, Peter Muduhwa, Nqobizitha Masuku, Marlvin Gaki, Richard Hachiro, Prince Dube and Leeroy Mavhunga. They also took on board the current Premiership top scorer Clive Augusto of Chicken Inn, Dynamos’ new signing Evans Katema and CAPS United’s winger Phineas Bhamusi. CHAN tournament is exclusively reserved for players plying their trade in the local league. Zimbabwe missed the CHAN finals for the first time last year when they failed to make it to Morocco following a shock defeat at the hands of Namibia in the qualifiers. Before that, the Warriors had made every final of the CHAN tournament since 2009 when the tournament was inaugurated in Cote d’Ivoire. The Warriors flew into Mauritius on Thursday afternoon and found their opponents busy hosting the 2019 edition of Indian Ocean Island Games, for which Club M made it to the finals set for today against Reunion. Meanwhile, Warriors goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda has signed a two-year deal with South African Premiership side Golden Arrows. The 32-year-old has been under assessment at the KwaZulu Natal side in the last two weeks. According to the player’s representative, Nqobizitha Mlilo, Sibanda has signed a two-year deal with Steve Komphela’s side and he credits the club’s chairperson Mato Madlala for making the deal possible. “He has signed, two years,” Mlilo told KickOff.com. “He is over the moon. He will put all hands on deck. “He will repay the chairlady Mato for the faith she has in him. The deal was easy. She was clear and determined that we reached a deal. “The way she treated Eddie has been more than professional and motherly. “It has been heart-warming dealing with her. Eddie is ready to work.”  Zimbabwe Squad Goalkeepers: Talbert Shumba (Chapungu), Ariel Sibanda (Highlanders) Defenders: Ian Nekati (ZPC Kariba), Xolani Ndlovu (Chicken Inn), Partson Jaure (Manica Diamonds), Peter Muduwa (Highlanders), Byron Madzokere (Yadah Stars), Brian Chikwenya (Triangle) Midfielders: Phenias Bhamusi (CAPS United), Richard Hachiro (Herentals), Nqobizitha Masuku (Highlanders), Ralph Kawondera (Triangle), Never Tigere (FC Platinum), Malvin Gaki (Chicken Inn), Leeroy Mavunga (Yadah Stars) Strikers: Clive Augusto (Chicken Inn), Evans Katema (Dynamos), Prince Dube (Highlanders)