The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS, desperate for an improved show in the second half of the season, were yesterday keeping their fingers crossed to use their newly-signed players against Black Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon. All league matches will kick off at 2pm again this weekend because of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Egypt. DeMbare team manager Richard Chihoro has been keeping vigil at the Premier Soccer League offices in the last few days to have the trio of Archford Gutu, Simba Nhivi and Evans Katema cleared to play at the earliest possible time. Chihoro yesterday said they were still to make the breakthrough. But, coach Tonderai Ndiraya said he has been preparing for all possibilities against a Rhinos side that is on a seven-match unbeaten run. “The manager has been running around to make sure that the players are available so that we bolster our squad for a very tough game against Black Rhinos at the weekend. “But, I think we have taken all the scenarios into consideration. We have planned with them in mind and we have also planned without them. “So, in terms of preparations, we are good to go. Whichever scenario comes, we are good to go as a team. But we trust the registration system, it doesn’t need much. I think it’s something that can be done in a day provided all the paperwork is there. So, we provided all the paperwork and what’s left now is the process and I just trust that everything goes through. We want to avoid the last-minute rush which can disturb our programme,” said Ndiraya. Dynamos are coming from a 1-0 win over Chapungu. I think they have an experienced squad. Their coach Herbert Maruwa has done very well this season. They are never shy of their targets. They want the big prize and they have really started the season quite well. They have gone seven games without defeat, which shows the quality of their strength.’’ DeMbare are likely to face their former players — Marvelous Mukumba, Gift Saunyama and goalkeeper Blessing Mwandimutsira —  who crossed the floor under a cloud during the off-season. Rhinos coach Maruwa, who once worked together with Ndiraya in the Glamour Boys structures a few years back, said he is not looking at DeMbare’s troubles. “We are not undermining Dynamos, we are expecting everything and anything from them. “We respect them; we took some of their players. No emotions; we will just try to get our job done. We are gunning for maximum points, we have targets to reach and we will try our very best to push and make our targets a reality,” said Maruwa. Fixtures
Today Bulawayo Chiefs v Manica Diamonds (Luveve) Chapungu v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Mandava) Black Rhinos v Dynamos (NSS) Harare City v ZPC Kariba (Rufaro) Tomorrow
Hwange v Chicken Inn (Colliery) Highlanders v FC Platinum (Barbourfields) CAPS United v Yadah (NSS) Triangle United v TelOne (Gibbo) Mushowani Stars v Herentals (Trojan)