The Herald LORD. — England were crowned Cricket World Cup Champions by the narrowest of margins over New Zealand in the 2019 ICC Cricket World Cup final at Lord’s in London yesterday. In a first for World Cup history, the final was decided by a Super Over after England were bowled out for 241 in 50 overs in reply to New Zealand’s 241 for eight after Kane Williamson had won the toss and elected to bat first. With England having chased, they were to bat first in the Super Over with man-of-the-match Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler scoring 15 runs off Trent Boult’s over. In reply, New Zealand had to score 16 runs from six balls bowled by Jofra Archer but Jimmy Neesham and Martin Guptill scored 15 runs off six balls resulting in the Super Over being a tie as well. New Zealand needed two runs off the final ball to win the World Cup but Guptill was run out going for the winning run and because England had scored more boundaries in the regular match and Super Over combined, they were crowned 2019 ICC Cricket World Cup champions for the first time in their history, and fourth time of asking, condemning the Black Caps to their second-consecutive final defeat. “My heart is still racing. It’s the biggest thing I’ve ever won, a great bunch of fellas, a really good family to me,” Archer said. Stokes was in tears as England’s players danced joyously around the pitch. “I’m pretty lost for words. All the hard work over four years, to get here and be champions of the world. It’s an amazing feeling. I’m pretty done,” Stokes said with an expression that mixed elation with bewilderment. “Playing against New Zealand is always a great event. They are a seriously good team and really good lads. I said to Kane Williamson I’ll be apologising for that for the rest of my life.” England had stuttered in their chase of New Zealand’s 241 with Jason Roy (17), Joe Root (7) and Eoin Morgan (7) back in the hut with England on 71 for three with Matt Henry (10-2-40-1), Colin de Grandhomme (10-2-25-1) and Neesham (7-0-43-3) being on target. — SuperSport.com