The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Arts Reporter
GOSPEL musician Pastor Daniel Dickson is aiming high following the release of his debut album, “Wakatendeka”, which he is planning to take to the people through a number of shows lined up around Harare. Pastor Dickson said he will not only wait for music marketing platforms to sell his music, but will stage a number of shows across the city to popularise the album. “I sought the assistance of established gospel singer Pastor G (Stanley Gwanzura) who shared a lot with me,” he said. “After having workshops and meetings with Pastor G and other fellow musicians, I then released ‘Wakatendeka’, which is my debut album. “I will not wait for other music marketing platforms to take my music to the people, but I am planning to have a number of shows around the city.” Pastor Dickson yesterday kicked off his marathon shows with a fund-raising concert at Christian Faith Fellowship Church in Dzivaresekwa, Harare. The concert was dubbed “The Building Fund-Raising Live Show”. Speaking on the sidelines of the show, Pastor Dickson’s manager, Lawrence Manduna, said the Royal Worship Band was already working on his second album set for release before year end. Manduna revealed that the band will rope in a number of gospel artistes whom he was already negotiating with for collaborations. “The Royal Worship Band is already working on tracks to be included on their second album to be released before the end of this year,” he said. “Today, they have sampled three of some of the new tracks to be included on his second album. Pastor Dickson is also in talks with a number of gospel musicians that he wants to work with on his second album. “I am sure some have already agreed and they were working on other modalities.” Manduna said the band has also sought the services of renowned guitarists whom they are contemplating roping into the band. Rhumba exponent Pitshou Lumiere —real name Musila Minsiomi —was among the artistes who were part of the Royal Worship Band. Lumiere is band leader for rhumba outfit Diamond Musica.