The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
United Kingdom -based Zimbabwean dancer, multi-instrumentalist and actress, Anna Mudeka, says her ancestral beliefs have inspired her to become a great storyteller. Mudeka kicked off her one woman-hander tour dubbed “Kure Kure- Faraway” in the United Kingdom over the weekend. The tour will run until November in different parts of the United Kingdom with shows slated for Norwich, Oxford, Wales, Halesworth, Islington, Margate, Holt, Newcastle, Ipswich, Birmingham, Manchester, Slough, Bristol, Cromer, Colchester, Kings Lynn, Twickenham, Thetford, Diss and Lowestoft. “I am proud of my roots. I strongly believe in the Unhu or Ubuntu human philosophy. My identity, my history, my ancestral beliefs, my DNA has made me who I am. I am because we are,” she said. “From the fabled great march of the Bantu tribe from West Africa down to Zimbabwe here in southern Africa some thousands of years ago, Kure Kure-Faraway, explores seismic shifts in the regions’ cultural history.” Kure Kure-Faraway, a story-telling concert traces the movement of Mudeka’s ancestors, framing it in her personal struggle of balancing a quest for global adventure while remaining true to the traditions of her dynastic forebears. Directed by David Farmer, produced by Arts La’Olam and co-commissioned by Norwich Arts Centre, the tour has been funded by Arts Council England. She conjures the sensory influence of her grandmother in a deeply personal sound-scape, contrasting this with the emotional jolt of moving to a new country and finding herself alone, vulnerable, excited and empowered. “Many of my shows are accompanied by interactive and immersive workshops, perfect for all ages and abilities to learn clapping rhythms, shakers and drumming, dance moves and so experience a true taste of Zimbabwean culture,” she said. She added that it is an invitation to remember ancestors, their wisdom and their stories, as these workshops offer an insight into the uplifting and soulful spiritualism of a Bira Shona celebration.