The Herald Business Reporter
The Chartered Institute of Customer Management (CICM) in collaboration with Select Research (Pvt) Limited is set to release the third edition of the Zimbabwe Customer Satisfaction Index (ZimCSI) on Wednesday in the capital. The ZimCSI is a national indicator on how companies are performing in terms of customer satisfaction at a sectoral level. Zimbabwe’s top 10-rated companies in terms of customer satisfaction will be showcased and honoured at the launch event. “There will be presentation of national customer satisfaction results, a panel discussion on ensuring customer satisfaction comprising regulatory authorities and other industry experts, presentations of awards to the top 10 NCSI-rated companies,” said the organisers. The NCSI essentially measures the quality of economic output as a complement to traditional measures of the quantity of economic output. It is the country’s scientific standard of customer satisfaction. The NCSI- an independent national benchmark of customer satisfaction of the quality of products and services – is therefore critical insofar as benefits players in both the public and private sectors within the local economy, as well as foreign investors eyeing the country’s markets. The 2019 NCSI will be launched within a context of anticipated decline in total aggregate demand as inflationary pressures affect the economy. CICM chief executive Dr Ricky Harris says data from the index will help local firms make better decisions in terms of their customer relationship management. “Customer care and/or expectations are changing faster that most companies cannot keep up with, presenting both a challenge and opportunity. Customers today expect companies to know a lot about them, their preferences, needs, past behaviours and expectations. Therefore, the introduction of ZimCSI to gather customer insights across Zimbabwe and help organisations respond better to customers’ expectations,” she said. “The Zimbabwe Customer Satisfaction Index is an independent economic indicator based on modelling of customer evaluations of the quality of goods and services purchased in Zimbabwe produced by both domestic and foreign firms with substantial market shares.”