The Herald Tobias Mandoreba in Hwange
Hwange ………………………(0) 2
Chicken Inn ……………….(1) 1
FIRED-UP Hwange helped themselves to a sumptuous Chicken Inn meal after coming from behind to silence the visiting Gamecocks in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played in front of a vocal crowd at the Colliery yesterday. The coalminers seem to have turned the corner as they downed Bulawayo Chiefs 1-0 at the same venue to halt an alarming seven-match win-less streak. Yesterday, the Nation Dube-coached outfit did not allow the setback of going down in the opening half against the run of play to dampen their spirits as they came back from half-time charging like a wounded buffalo to “marinate and roast the chickens”. The Gamecocks went ahead in the 39th minute with only their first attack at goal through an Innocent Mucheneka blistering volley after he latched on to a miscued clearance by Hwange captain Gerald Nldovu. Ndlovu had attempted to deal with a cross from Obrey Chirinda. Before the goal, the visitors were “missing in action” largely as a result of their dangerous forward Clive Augusto being kept under lock and key by the youthful Hwange defender Lucas Sibanda for the entire match. While Chicken Inn were struggling to get a grip in the contest,  Hwange missed three good scoring chances through efforts of Kasimero Chimbadzwa, Nomore Chinyerere and veteran defender Felex Chi-                            ndungwe. Hwange then drew level in the 63rd minute through another new acquisition Nixon Gama, who like Chimbadzwa last week, grabbed his first goal in Chipangano colours. Gama came at the end of a Chimbadzwa flick to hammer home from close range and in the process sending the home fans into a delirium. With Chicken Inn still wondering what had hit them, veteran Andrew Chuma settled matters with a glancing diving header four minutes after Gama’s goal to seal the Gamecocks’ fate. Chicken Inn found the home defence in an uncompromising mood as they held on to this huge morale boosting win. Hwange coach Nation Dube was all smiles after the game. “It was a good show especially in the last half after a balanced opening period. It’s game on as we go forward and I am confident we can maintain the fine form,” said Dube. The visitors coach Joey Antipas conceded defeat after the match. “It was a game we struggled to get into the groove but such is football we have to dust ourselves up and focus on the next assignment. Sadly we also let in soft goals,” said the veteran gaffer. Teams
Hwange: T. Mvula; L. Sibanda; N. Chinyerere; G. Ndlovu; A. Chuma; F. Chindungwe; T. Ncube; S. Gadzikwa; E. Gwitima (A. Ndlovu 84th min); K. Chimbadzwa; N. Gama (B. Ngoma 90th min). Chicken Inn: B. Donovan; M. Jackson; L. Chakoroma; X. Ndlovu; S. Ndlovu (T. Kadonzvo 67th min); P. Bernard; T. Chipunza; I. Mucheneka; O. Chirinda; C. Augusto; M.Gaki.