The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
AS the Gems left the country yesterday for the Vitality Netball World Cup in Liverpool, England, captain Perpetua Siyachitema paid tribute to her teammates for their determination which has taken them this far. Zimbabwe will be among the 16 countries from across the globe that will be competing at the Netball World Cup this month. The tournament gets underway on July 12 and runs until July 21. “The journey hasn’t been easy. We struggled to be where we are right now but I give thanks to the Gems, to the girls and our management. We managed to just pull through even though things were tough and I am so excited,” said Siyachitema. Zimbabwe will be making their debut appearance at the Netball World Cup and they will take on defending champions Australia, Northern Ireland and Sri Lanka in Group A. Siyachitema said they know it will be a tough game when they face Australia but they are looking forward to the challenge. “We are so fired up for the tournament, the girls are geared up, even the morale now is so great, it’s so high. So I think we are going to make the nation proud. “Looking at our group, Australia obviously they are going to be the toughest opponent in the group. But I am so excited especially the fact that we are in the same group with Australia. It has always been my wish as an individual to play the best. “So I am looking forward to the games and I would like to leave the Gems in the top eight on the world rankings, that’s my wish,” said Siyachitema. Australia-based goal-shooter Joice Mada-Takaidza, who bounced back to the team after almost a decade, has only one wish, that’s if for the whole nation to rally behind the Gems as their achievement will go down in the history books of netball. “I just wish everyone could stand up and support us. It’s our first time and that will be written in history. Yes, we are getting support but a lot of support is coming from fellow women. But we also need support coming from the men. They should come on board and support us. “I am so happy and so grateful that I was selected after nine years not even playing for Zimbabwe . . . A lot of the girls are new players that I really didn’t know. I only know four players that I last played with in 2010. But with the few days of training (we have had) we blended well, we are all friends. To me they are all young sisters,” she said. For her it’s a reunion with some of the players she featured with in the national team including Siyachitema, Rudo Karume, Pauline Jani and Ndaizivei Madzikangava. Besides the final team of 12 players, the national association is also taking the other eight players that have been part of the provisional squad. Zimbabwe Netball Association president, Leticia Chipandu, said it’s part of their developmental purposes and also recognising the players for their efforts that saw Zimbabwe booking their place at the global stage. Chipandu said the team is expected to play some friendlies including a game against Wales ahead of the actual competition. “We are also taking the remaining eight girls as developmental players. I think they deserve to be in Liverpool. They have worked very hard to be there,” said Chipandu. The Gems were on Wednesday presented with a $300 000 cheque by Simbisa Brands and $200 000 (local currency) by National Foods through their brand Pearlenta at separate functions held in Harare. They are also set to get a training kit from National Foods. Simbisa Brands group corporate social responsibility, Michelle Fisher, said considering the challenges the Gems faced on their journey to the World Cup qualification, the team deserve to be supported. Final Gems Team Perpetua Siyachitema (Glow Petroleum), Ndaizivei Madzikangava (Correctional Queens), Patricia Mauladi (ZDF), Claris Kwaramba (Platinum Queens), Pauline Jani (Mambas Queens), Ursula Ndlovu (Harare City) , Joice Mada-Takaidza (Olympic Dam, Australia), Sharon Bwanali (Harare City), Felistus Kwangwa (Correctional Queens), Rudo Karume (Harare City), Sharleen Makusha (Platinum Queens), Adelaide Muskwe (Seven Stars, UK).