The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
TONDERAI Ndiraya is determined to win back the hearts of the Dynamos supporters by employing a game plan which helps them grind results at the expense of style. DeMbare beat ZPC Kariba 1-0 on Sunday to stop a win-less run of four league matches. Their physical game won the day against ZPC Kariba on Sunday with the fans solidly behind them. Ndiraya, who now has managed four points in his first two assignments, saluted the supporters when he entered the stadium on Sunday and they obliged by giving him a standing ovation from the terraces. The last time Dynamos were at Rufaro, his predecessor Lloyd Chigowe and his team were booed by their fans. “But, after the win over ZPC Kariba, Ndiraya led the players on a victory lap and they were warmly received by the supporters. “I think the support was good. We didn’t expect such a crowd considering what had happened in the past,’’ said Ndiraya. “The team had gone for four games on a losing streak and for the people to show some confidence, to come and support the team, was fantastic. “We never heard many whistles (of disapproval) even when mistakes were made and that’s a sign that the fans are walking together with the team and I hope they will keep supporting the boys so that we get where we want to.’’ Ndiraya, though, is particularly worried by his team’s lack of fitness. His other concern is the quality at his disposal and, to win the hearts of the supporters, he has challenged his players to fight for every ball and to try and pick up points while they get their house in order. From their performance this season, it appears Dynamos still have a long way to go if they hope to challenge for honours. However, the likes of Emmanuel Jalai, Tawanda Chisi and Ngandu Mangala have shown great potential. Utility man Ali Joseph Maliselo was pushed into the engine room to partner Chisi, filling the void created by the suspension of Godfrey Mukambi and injury to Cameroonian Vincent Mbega. “I think he is a utility guy and you would want to have such players in your team,’’ said Ndiraya. “He can play any position you deploy him to play and when we lost Vincent Mbega, through injury at training, he was the best option there and I thought he did a very good job. “He was shielding the defence quite well, he was winning almost everything and I am quite happy with what he did. “Not just him but generally the whole squad. “We will keep working and condition them so that they can do even better. Tactically, I thought we were okay although we can improve.’’ Dynamos will face Yadah in their next assignment.