The Herald Victor Maphosa Herald Correspondent
At least 1 375 students graduated with Diplomas in Education at Seke Teachers College yesterday amid calls by the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development to embrace science and technology to enhance economic development. The theme of this year’s graduation was “Digital Transformation: A priority for the classroom practitioner.” Officiating at the college’s 35th graduation ceremony in Chitungwiza yesterday, Secretary in the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Professor Fanuel Tagwira said this year’s theme resonates well with the ministry’s policy, which emphasises the application of science and technology for economic growth. “The theme of this year’s graduation is a befitting theme because it resonates well with the ministry’s policy, which emphasises on the application of Science and Technology to achieve growth and development in all sectors of the economy. “It is also in tandem with societal expectations of quality education in line with Sustainable Development Goal 4, which includes inclusive and equitable quality education and the promotion of lifelong learning opportunities,” he said He said the teaching landscape is changing because of technology hence the importance of all in the education sector to embrace technology as it is useful in their field. “The education landscape is changing the world over. There are many disruptive technologies that are changing the way we deliver educational content and the way we run institutions, unless we embrace these changes we will be left behind and gradually our education will become outdated and irrelevant. “Teachers must now post their lectures on e-learning platforms like moodle or blackboard. We must transform our education to produce versatile graduates who are relevant to the needs of society.” He said there is need to train students to think scientifically, analyse problem objectively and apply facts learnt in class to problems in society. “When we do that our education will become an engine for development, producing knowledge and technological innovation for economic development of the country. For that migration to take place ICTs have to be at the centre of our learning systems,” he said. He congratulated the graduates and urged them to apply the acquired skills and contribute to the attainment of Vision 2030.