The Herald Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter
Issuance of national identity documents for victims of Cyclone Idai is set to start next month, a development that is expected to provide huge relief and convenience, a Cabinet Minister has said. Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa said importation of the consumables for the documents was already in the process. Minister Mutsvangwa said this yesterday while addressing journalists during a post-Cabinet meeting briefing. “The issuance of identity documents for victims of Cyclone Idai is set to begin around mid-June, at which time the imported consumables to be used by the Registrar General’s Department for the purpose should have been received in the country,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. Several people in Chimanimani and Chipinge, Manicaland province lost their documents after their homes were destroyed by Cyclone Idai. Most of them were failing to transact at financial institutions while school children were going to be affected in writing their public examinations, making Government intervention a huge relief. Minister Mutsvangwa said Cabinet had also been briefed on efforts towards rehabilitation, reconstruction and resettlement in the Cyclone Idai affected provinces, which she said were already bearing fruit as life was almost back to normal in most areas. “These efforts will be boosted by the offer of US$75 million support to be extended towards infrastructure development by the World Bank in Cyclone hit areas. Budgetary requirements for the exercise have already been availed to World Bank,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. She said a development partner had pledged to build 500 houses as part of efforts to assist victims. “Our inter-ministerial committee has been consulting a lot with stakeholders in the affected areas and the model houses are those in disaster prone areas, we want to make sure that we build houses which whenever the disaster comes back, it minimises damage, people’s lives and destruction of property. There is a private company that has pledged to build 500 houses, this is High Life, they are beautiful houses, with good design and strong, this is an ongoing process, people are not going to be left behind so that we move together so that we minimise any loss of property,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. She said food distribution would now be done once per month. “A total of 18 irrigation projects have been fully restored in Chimanimani and Chipinge, with productive activities now in full swing. To date, no cases of cholera have been reported in the affected areas. However, Rapid Response Teams have been sent to deal with reported cases of malaria in Chipinge, Mutsvangwa and Chimanimani areas. A model housing scheme has now been developed for the disaster prone areas of Chimanimani and Chipinge,” said Minister Mutsvangwa.