The Herald Kundai Marunya Art Correspondent
His sculptures about justice stand in front of Harare and Bulawayo High Courts. He loves connecting his legal work to sculpture and this time Harare lawyer David Ngwerume has done another piece that was erected at the Labour Court building in Rotten Row, which was recently commissioned by President Mnangagwa. Bearing the same theme, “Principles of Justice” with the aforementioned two pieces, the sculpture was carved from spring stone, depicting scales of justice, with bronze dishes hanging from both sides. Ngwerume said the sculpture took him three weeks to complete. “I designed and constructed the pond where the sculpture stands. I also did the plumbing. My intention was to have a fountain run into the dishes on the scales; it then gushes out in a continuous overflow representing the intention of justice,” he said. Ngwerume said art is ahead of philosophy. “Being a lawyer and sculptor, I feel honoured to have my art defining the needs of the moment, grandstanding in front of these courts and sending an everlasting sensation of how justice is a virtue,” he said. “My definition of justice is beyond philosophy as I am a modern day artist. Art has always been ahead of philosophy as it creates the message into a visible everlasting sensation.” Emphasising on the importance of art, Ngwerume made reference of how during colonialism and world war, art was looted by oppressors. “Creativity in art is a facet used to change the world that’s why artistic collection since time immemorial have great value,” he said. A jack of many trades including being a lawyer, visual artist, diesel plant fitter, Chef and designer, Ngwerume said his passion helps him balance his workload. “My passion of pursuit makes me stand-out from being ordinary to being driven by rewards of extraordinary determination in any field,” he said. Starting his creative career at 15 years, the artist has exhibited in many countries including United States, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Canada, China, Korea and Japan among others.