The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
AFTER riding as a professional for more than two decades, former Zimbabwean motocross champion rider Ashley Thixton has decided to call time on his glittering career. Thixton (26), who has been reigning supreme in both the seniors MX1 and MX2 classes for more than five years on the local motocross scene, yesterday told The Herald he has decided to “temporarily” quit the sport. He recently found a new job in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Thixton has been riding since he was five after he was introduced to the tough world of motocross racing by his father Trevor, who is also a former Zimbabwe senior champion rider. And after having been a full-time dirt biker rider for the past 21 years, Ashley has decided to become a part-time competitor following his relocation to the DRC. “Unfortunately, I have put my motocross career on hold, as I have recently accepted a very big job (with Katanga Contracting Services) in the DRC. “It’s a job at Mumi Mine where I’m now working as a diesel plant fitter. I am working as an expatriate from Zimbabwe,” said Ashley, speaking from his new base in the DRC. Ashley’s father, Trevor, also confirmed yesterday his son was no longer a full-time motocross rider. “He is now working in the DRC but he will still race when he comes back to Zimbabwe for his breaks. His full-time riding has now been changed to part-time. “This is how life goes. It was a tough decision for him as racing has always been his life but his career had to take (first) preference,” said Trevor, who is now riding in the Veterans Class locally. And this latest development means Ashley will no longer take part in both the Zimbabwean and South African National Championship series where he has been a regular feature together with fellow Zimbabwean riders such as Jayden Ashwell, Daiyaan Manuel, Regan Wasmuth and Emmanuel Bako. He will not be part of the Zimbabwean contingent that is expected to take part in the third round of the 2019 South African National Championship series at BORC in Bloemfontein this coming Saturday. Saturday will now see Bako, Manuel, Ashwell and Wasmuth carrying the country’s flag during round three of the South African Nationals at BORC. Bako, who came second to Manuel in the 85cc Class during last Sunday’s opening round of the Bogwheelers Club’s Club Championship series at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare, yesterday confirmed he will be heading back to South Africa. “Last Sunday I had a good race at Donnybrook where I came second overall to Daiyaan Manuel in the 85cc Class and I’m looking at performing much better during round three of the South African Nationals in Bloemfontein this coming Saturday. In fact, BORC is one of my favourite tracks in South Africa and if everything goes according to plan, I’m looking at getting another first step on the podium.”