The Herald Rebecca Kabaya Arts Reporter
He has done three albums and has been steadfast in following in his father’s footsteps. He has not made an outstanding hit from the three albums, but Peter Moyo believes his fourth release will give him the winning formula. Popularly known as Young Igwe, Moyo launches his fourth album titled “Mwana WeMurozvi” at East Point in Harare tonight.
Despite the challenges he has faced in keeping his late father Tongai Moyo’s legacy alive, Young Igwe has remained one of the most consistent performers in local showbiz. He is confident the experience he has gained over the past eight years will take him to the Promised Land and “Mwana WeMurozvi” will work the magic.
His father set a high bar in sungura and Young Igwe says he has become his own man.
He says people should not compare him to the late legend. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Young Igwe spoke about the album, which he said is about the ups and downs in life. He said the title is meant to celebrate people of the Moyo totem of the VaRozvi clan.
“I chose the title because my father, who I took after, used to call himself ‘Murozvi Mukuru’, which is a way of celebrating our beautiful Moyo totem, hence it is a continuation of the legacy,” he said. The album has six songs which include “VaMoyo”, “Shuviro” and “Hama Dzangu”.
The cheerful musician said each song on the album speaks to peculiar circumstances.
The track “Hama Dzangu” notes that important relationships go beyond blood bonds to include people that are willing to assist each other in times of trouble. Such people can also be taken as relatives. Moyo promised his fans a different music feel on this project since he has brought in his own flair and he is elated the developments around the album so far. “The album is quite unique from the sound, guitars and the maturity of the songs.
“All is set and ready for the launch, we have invited other musicians to colour the night. “We have done everything possible to market the album even before the launch and I trust my fans will support me as they always do,” he said. On his previous albums namely “Mushonga Mukuru” (2013), “Mabasa aMwari” (2015) and “Mopao Mokonzi” (2017), he managed to collaborate with other musicians like Tryson Chimbetu, Somandla Ndebete, Trymore Bande and the Bostwana star Slizer.