The Herald Talent Gore Arts Correspondent
ARTS Hub Zimbabwe is set to mentor disabled artistes during a workshop scheduled for May 20 to 24 in Harare. The aim of the project is to promote disabled artistes and increase their access to various opportunities in the industry. In an interview, the Hub’s manager, Christensen Mapuranga said the aim of the project was to increase access to the arts for the disabled artistes and audience as well as availing means to have them included at mainstream venues, festivals and other cultural institutions. “The project’s desire is to create, produce and manage opportunities to enable people living with disabilities to have positive experiences of the arts through involvement. It will also facilitate the exchange of information and knowledge, sharing best practices and lessons learnt from local arts as well as major opportunities and challenges for moving disabled people’s arts agenda forward,” he said. Mapuranga said participants at the workshop would include young creative artistes such as award-winning musician Prudence Mabhena. “The workshop will help singers, producers, DJ’s, instrumentalists, music promoters as well as videographers and we hope we will have some of the artistes striking collaborations,” he said. Mapuranga said this year’s edition of the Disability Arts Culture workshop was bringing in some new ideas because it was more practical than theoretical. “This time the participants are actually going to create and record a couple of songs,” he said. “There will also be a policy discussion on how to promote inclusivity in the music industry and this includes making spaces accessible to disabled audience. The policy forum is in partnership with the Zimbabwe Musicians Associations and the Music Crossroads Academy.” Mapuranga founded the Arts Hub in 2017 alongside Chipo Mawarire, Mhle Nzima, Tandoyenkosi Moyo, Thembi Moyo, Robson Murambiwa and Butho Nyathi. The hub has been supported by Enthuse Africa, the British Council, Developing Inclusive and Creative Economies, HIVOS and Electric South.