The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO
THE Highlanders executive have decided not to renew chief executive Nhlanhla Dube’s contract, which ended yesterday, a decision which led to the shocking suspension of two executive committee members. Dube was given a two-year contract, taking over from veteran administrator Ndumiso Gumede, and hopes were high that he would have his term extended. But the executive decided otherwise, allegedly against the advice of the board, who wanted the former committee member and secretary-general to be given another mandate. As a result, vice-chairman Modern Ngwenya and secretary-general Israel Moyo were yesterday suspended by the board, allegedly for their decision not to have Dube’s contract renewed. “We hire and fire, that is part of our mandate as an executive and I can tell you that Dube’s contract has not been renewed,’’ a source said. “We don’t have anyone to replace him yet, only that he is no longer the Highlanders head of secretariat and please note, he was not fired, no, his contract was simply not renewed because, largely, we felt our expectations of him were not met.’’ The decision not to renew Dube’s contract, however, stunned the board who summoned the chairman, Kenneth Mhlophe, to an impromptu meeting yesterday to demand answers. “The constitution is very clear and if the board feels Dube deserves another chance they should tell us on what basis, but what they are doing now is really interfering with the duties of the executive. “The human resources committee can recommend, but it does not mean that recommendation can be taken on board. “The executive was chosen by the people to run the affairs of the club not the board,” said another executive member. Mhlophe was at the mercy of the board for more than three hours as the “elders” demanded to know how and why Dube’s contract was not renewed as per their recommendations.  Efforts to get an official comment from board chairman Luke Mnkandla or board secretary Mathew Sibindi were unsuccessful. One of the suspended executive committee members, however, said he was shocked by the decision to suspend them. “Look, Nhlanhla reports to the executive and the assessment marks carried out by an independent consultant gave him 55 percent when we wanted, at least, 75 percent and surely that means the fella did not meet expectations. “There are a lot of wrongs that were happening, including creating a Khami-prison (like) atmosphere in the office, disrespecting the executive except the chairman, fighting with supporters and we felt that was unbecoming of a chief executive officer. “Daggers are drawn now we will see who is going to win this,” fumed the suspended member. According to sources some members of the executive last week wanted to impeach club chairman Mhlophe for dereliction of duty.