The Herald Tendai Rupapa Senior Reporter
First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa’s charity works have touched the hearts of many people. Her works have been cutting across all sections of the society — from the heartbroken, those devastated by natural pestilences, the sick and the underprivileged in general. However, her efforts alone cannot satisfy the demands of thousands of Zimbabweans yearning for assistance from the hand that gives. It is against this backdrop that Amai Mnangagwa is reaching out to kind and benevolent individuals and corporates to join her in the fight towards the extrication of unfortunate Zimbabweans from the jaws of calamities. Following the devastating Cyclone Idai that ripped through some sections of Manicaland Province and parts of Masvingo, there was an overwhelming response from individuals, non-governmental organisations and the corporate world. As mother of the nation, the First Lady led from the front, assessing the basic needs needed to rehabilitate the affected people physically and emotionally. The First Lady said: “What I witnessed there is heart-rending. They have no kitchen utensils . . . havana kana pekubikira . . . kana pekudyira. Vanoda midziyo yemumba kuti vawane pekubikira nepekudyira the food they are receiving from well-wishers. “As mothers and other benevolent Zimbabweans, let’s join hands and help these unfortunate fellow Zimbabweans. Whatever one provides will go a long way in assisting these  people. “Through my charity organisation, Angel of Hope Foundation, we are trying within our means to assist the affected people,” she said. Through her foundation, the First Lady donated an assortment of foodstuffs and various goods and on top availed her Angel of Hope Foundation ambulance to assist in Cyclone Idai-hit areas. She also cut short her attendance at the 63rd UN Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) when the disaster struck to assist citizens affected by Cyclone Idai. The First Lady has committed to assisting women, children and the vulnerable in society as part of her philanthropic work, and has been conducting several programmes of action towards achievement of that                                                                                goal. She visited the country’s most marginalised communities to uplift their lives and educate them on health- related issues. She facilitated the construction of a health centre and drilling of boreholes for the Doma community in Kanyemba and handed over self-help projects that include fish farming and a community orchard. She visited the San people in Plumtree and was disheartened to see the San people living in squalid conditions. The First Lady is a hands-on person in matters affecting the majority of the people. Recently she went on a tour of the National Pharmaceutical Company (NatPharm) that procures and distribute medical drugs and other consumables. As Health and Child Care Ambassador, she sought to understand the state of national medical drugs stores, distribution patterns and to have an appreciation on how the people manning the facility work. When she left the place, she was well informed of the challenges faced and how the people under the circumstances were managing the situation. The First Lady has been hailed on different occasions. Uganda’s Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Ms Barbara Nekesa Oundo, recently hailed her for her charity work and challenged the corporate sector to support her initiatives. World Health Organisation (WHO) country representative Dr Alex Gasasira on Monday also applauded the First Lady for her sterling work in the health sector and the support she gives to the vulnerable community. Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Guo Shaochun on Wednesday said the First Lady’s devotion to women and children’s welfare strengthened his country’s faith in contributing towards Zimbabwe’s health sector. The First Lady won the Pan-African Humanitarian Award and also scooped the 2019 African Phenomenal Woman of the Year Award in recognition of her philanthropic work in Zimbabwe.