The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo and Rebecca Kabaya Lifestyle Writers
In the 21st century life has become so hectic and people are juggling with a lot of things, getting exposed to serious pressure. The times we live in make us want to escape into another world every so often, even if it’s just for a few hours, to shut off from external stimulation. This urgent need to “get away”, especially in the urban scenario, is becoming an increasing reality. So what do you do? This is where a day spa can be a blessing, a place that helps you indulge in some much-needed “me” time, to switch off and relax, recharge, reflect, detox and beautify. Modern-day spas cater for a range of health-promoting experiences. The healing powers of touch therapy have been expounded since ancient times. It is a fact that some people have slowly embraced the idea that self-relaxation and pampering have become necessities rather than luxuries to curb stress and routine workloads. It is against this background that now we have an upsurge of health spas who offer manicures, laser therapies, body rituals, wellness therapies, body scrubs, advanced slimming solutions, body-wraps, toe-riff and advanced facials. A short survey in Harare revealed that these health spas are patronised by the elite, middle income and up market clients because of the price of the services and the nature of the environment of the clientele being offered. Saturday Herald Lifestyle visited Amara’s Trios Health Spa in Pomona, Borrowdale, one of the country’s prominent wellness centres, which offers an assortment of top to toe health and grooming treatments. In an interview, Amara’s health spa managing director and owner Laureen Adam, said people are embracing and understanding culture of staying healthy, stress-free and productive. Asked about their clients, the bubbly business woman said most of their clients are from the high-end market. “Most of the clients we have are the high stress level clientele which is the people’s top management including the CEO’s, directors and company owners. “Massages does not only help you to distress but it also prevents you from blood clots you find most people will be sitting from 7 am to 7pm in an office, especially at these times when things are so hard everybody is working ten times harder than they should do on a normal basis which means their stress levels are very high,” she said. The bubbly manager said health spas are well known for their natural healing methods as an alternative. “There are certain things that people are taking expensive medicine for which won’t be necessary sometimes. “It is a very important thing to take time out to relax and it’s only those people that understand that when they relax whether its massage, yoga or meditation they become more creative and that’s our clientele, they maintain that because they know it’s to the benefit of their health more than it is when you are popping tablets which have side effects like kidney problems or hypertension,” she said. So what do they offer? Adams said their theme is “Inspiring relaxed minds”. “We have a spa menu which has various categories and etiquette rules. Our services include enhanced grooming, laser therapies, body rituals, massages and advanced facials. These can be served by professional therapists and henceforth it’s heaven on earth treatment,” she said. She later cited ignorance and lack of knowledge as major challenges affecting the industry. “Most men say or think that health spas are for women who love to pamper themselves. “While our local people visit spas when it’s someone’s birthday or any other special event, they really think it is a luxury. They misinterpret what health is about and what is beauty. This has affected the industry because we see this as a luxury but what we all don’t take note is that everyone needs to relax, detox and have a stress-free life,” she said. “A spa is supposed to be a sanctuary to regenerate one’s physic, mind, and relieve you emotionally and physically in fact it is supposed to re-balance people and this is what the majority do not know about spas that it is really there to save their lives. “We are still trying to educate people on this through our advertisements, there is still need of a one on one sort of communication for them to get a clear picture of how a health spa works,” she further explained.