The Herald Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter
Diplomats from several Western countries including Japan yesterday expressed satisfaction with the scope of reforms that the Government has embarked on to improve the country’s economic and political environment. This was said by US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Brian Nichols on behalf of diplomats from the EU, the UK, Australia, Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden and Germany that paid a courtesy call on Speaker of the National Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda. Addressing the media after the meeting Mr Nichols said the reforms were important in the country’s quest for development. “This was an important opportunity for all the friends of Zimbabwe to gather to discuss in Parliament and to benefit from Honourable Speaker Mudenda’s views on what is going on in the legislative agenda and all of us were impressed by the length and breadth of the legislative reforms that are on-going, some of them have been passed, others are being debated and some are at various formulation stages,” Mr Nichols said. “These reforms are very important for Zimbabwe as it develops, as it improves its democracy, as it moves forward with economic engagement and in particular we are very focused on those areas that have had international input or discussion in the past. “The Speaker for example laid out the advances made in the electoral reform process and ongoing debate and engagement and the consultation process for the legislation involving the maintenance of public order, access to information and protection of personal privacy, economic reforms and the oversight role of Parliament.” Mr Nichols said it was also important that the country promote the rule of law, including protection of investors and liberalisation of the foreign exchange market. Several pieces of legislation to further strengthen the political and personal rights and improve the investment environment are before Parliament while President Mnangagwa has initiated dialogue with leaders of at least 17 political parties to address the issues affecting the generality of the population. Turning to the forthcoming US-Africa Business Summit to be held in Mozambique next month, Ambassador Nichols said the US was looking forward to hear President Mnangagwa’s vision for the country. “The President of Zimbabwe is going. He is attending and I am sure our colleagues from the Foreign Ministry can lay out this agenda in detail, but certainly he will be there and I am sure all will be interested in hearing what he says, the US delegation will be robust as well. “We are very much interested in private sector led development throughout the continent as all my colleagues here are,” Ambassador Nichols said. Last week, Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Sibusiso Moyo also confirmed that the President would attend the meeting where over 1 000 US and African private sector executives, international investors and government leaders will meet. The meeting will explore various areas of cooperation and new opportunities and shape US and Africa trade and investment opportunities.