The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
SPILLS and thrills will once again be the order of the day when the opening round of 2019 Bogwheelers Club Motocross Club Championship series fires into action at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare tomorrow. With the opening round of the National Championship series done and dusted, dirt bike racing fans will tomorrow make their way back to Donnybrook. They will have another chance of judging the form of some of the country’s top junior and senior motocross riders at this exciting event and there’s no doubt about it – the 2019 season is shaping up to be a classic. The deep sand of Donnybrook track is an intimidating test of technique, speed and fitness and no-one likes the soft stuff more than Ashley Thixton who will be pushing for a podium with his young brother Cameron in the main MX1 Class. The Thixton brothers are just a joy to watch when on song on the track but they should expect to be pushed all way by Doug Mellor who, on his day, can cause an upset in this class and it will be difficult to count him out tomorrow. The 125cc Class has been “privatised” by Tristan Grainger and if he pitches up tomorrow, he should leave the likes of Daiyaan “D” Manuel, Kuda Mhene (Jnr), Samuel Wheeler, Liam le Roux, Luke Doran, Mark Webb and Cameron Mellor with enough to think about on the track at Donnybrook. Grainger is also a safe bet to emerge triumphant in the MX2 Class. Tomorrow’s race meeting also features two of the country’s most exciting junior riders Manuel and Emmanuel Bako in the 85cc Class where they will have the good company of Jamie Doran, Ricky White, Dillan Faasen, Cameron Mellor, Tristan Versfeld and Daniel Collett. The battle for the first step on the podium is going to be strong throughout the field in this class. There’s no prize for guessing who will win the 65cc Class as young Jordan Dewdney has of late turned it into his personal property despite facing some stiff competition from the likes of Emile Croisette, Munya Bako, Declan Barrett and Josh Halkier. 