The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
A FEW days after penning a long-term sponsorship deal with a local fast-food outlet last week, Zimbabwe’s junior motocross champion rider Emmanuel Bako came out smoking at the famous Smoking Pistons track in Johannesburg, South Africa, yesterday where he swept the board in the 85cc (Junior) Class during the fourth round of the 2019 Gauteng Series. Bako, fresh from getting a sponsorship deal from Harare’s Chicken Hut fast-food outlet, did not disappoint in yesterday’s race meeting as he rode brilliantly to come out tops in the 85cc (Junior) Class after winning both heats ahead of South Africa’s James Thompson. Another young South African rider Deegan Bloomfield settled for third place in this class which had a good field of 11 bikers.
Bako, a Grade Seven pupil at Heritage School in Harare, had a great start in yesterday’s race meeting after a long school break and was riding superbly well, making no mistakes as he made a hole shot, coming first in both heats to finish first overall. The track at Smoking Pistons had lots of bumps but Bako handled it very well as he kept focused on his two-wheel small bike, beating all the big wheels. And speaking from Johannesburg yesterday, Bako’s father and manager, Brighton, said it was fun to watch his son riding so well although it was not easy racing against riders who were with big wheels “but all the same it was a great race.” “He did extremely well and a big thanks to his new sponsors, Chicken Hut, who have just come on board . . . I think they are really happy with this kind of performance. A big thanks too to our ground manager Pedzai Sakupwanya, our other sponsors Fuchs Silkolene (Zimbabwe), Prolific Boreholes and his coach Stan Mugiyo,” Brighton “Bucks” Bako said. Emmanuel Bako is now expected to return to one of his favourite hunting grounds — Donnybrook Raceway in Harare — this coming weekend to race in the first round of the 2019 Bogwheelers Club Championship. The Bogwheelers Club run the motorcycling sport of motocross in this country under the Zimbabwe Motorsport Federation and next Sunday, May 19, will see them hosting the opening round of their Club Championship series at Donnybrook. The club’s secretary, Yasmin Manuel, said the event is expected to attract most of the country’s top junior and senior male and female riders who will fight for the top honours in nine classes – PeeWees (for bikers under the age of seven), 50cc, 65cc, 85cc, 125cc MX1, MX2, Veterans and Masters. Upcoming female rider Tadiwanashe Nyamupfukudza, who has been inactive since the beginning of this season, is, unfortunately, not going to take part in this race meeting as she is still looking at getting a new 85cc (small wheel) bike to ride on. But her young brother Victor (5), who competes in the PeeWee Class, will be in action on Sunday.
The Nyamupfukudzas’ father, Simba, yesterday said his daughter Tadiwanashe also needs a lot of training before she gets back on the track to race. “She still lacks some fitness but her little brother Victor will be part of the riders who will grace the track at Donnybrook on May 19. He’s still in the PeeWee Class but I’m introducing him to 50cc Class, so he is going to participate in two classes . . . He has just turned five.”