The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Nineteen-year-old spoken word poet Wadzanai Muzvongi was crowned Miss Teen Zimbabwe 2019 over the weekend at Reps Theatre, Harare, beating 19 other contestants. Bulawayo teenagers dominated in the princess category as Jemima Mandemwa (19) was voted first princess while the second princess was 18-year-old Ayanda Mandemwa. Miss Teen Personality went to Gweru based Molly Rahman, Mbare dancer Karen Mukome won the Miss Talent Teen while Sheron Makiwa (17) of Bulawayo walked away with People’s Choice title with over 3 000 votes. Muzvongi, who was already the crowd’s favourite each time she walked onto the ramp, won some consolation prizes among others and is set to represent the country at the Miss Teen World in July this year. The bubbly queen sailed through the question and answer segment apart from presenting her brilliant poem about the plight of teenage girls on the talent segment. In an interview, Mudzvongi was overwhelmed by the support from her family and shocked at the same time that she is the queen. “So far this is the greatest achievement of my life. I am so happy and I want to thank a lot of people who include my family, friends, Arundel team and the organisers. Right now I am now planning for the world pageant and I have a lot to learn from my predecessor. I also want to impact and influence teenagers all over the world,” she said. The poet-cum-beauty queen said she started spoken word at the age of 16, posting on social media. Currently, she is working as receptionist and part-time coach at Arundel School. “I would like to study business and psychology, a double major at an African university,” she said. Speaking at the same event, guest of honour, United Kingdom-based businesswoman and philanthropist Glorainne Francis, said girls should understand and value themselves as they are the future leaders. “I was touched by all of you, how you carried and presented yourselves especially on the talent side. Chase your dreams and know your value in the society. You are all queens hence you should start acting as one,” she said.