The Herald Oscar Rusenga in TRAINGLE
Manica ………………… 0 Chicken Inn ………… (1) 2 MANICA Diamonds were handed a Premiership football lesson by an inspired Chicken Inn yesterday as coach Luke Masomere blamed fatigue for his team’s defeat at Gibbo yesterday. Goals from Bret Amidu and Premiership top goalscorer Clive Augusto were enough to help Joey Antipas and his side recover from back-to-back defeats against FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars. Masomere conceded Chicken Inn were the better side but felt they could have done better if they were clinical in front of goals. “I think it was a game of two halves. We created chances in the second half but we could not convert even the simplest of chances. “Chicken Inn were more organised and they deserved to win. “We are also starting to feel fatigued because of a lot of travelling and we feel it’s high time we start using our home ground in Rusape,” he said. Manica were forced to switch to Gibbo after their home ground failed the test. They were the first to threaten the visitors’ goal but Ishmael Lawe’s header from Stephen Sibanda cross at the near post was pushed out for a corner by Bernard Donovan in the 27th minute. Chicken Inn were ahead five minutes later when Amidu headed home to beat Jorum Muchambo on the blind side. Valentine Kadonzvo, who was lively in the first half, saw his shot from acute angle fly just over the bar in the 39th minute as Chicken Inn continued dominating proceedings. Manica had their chance to equalise but Lawe’s header from Patson Jaure free-kick in the 43rd minute went just wide with Donovan beaten. Chicken Inn could have gone to the breather two goals ahead but Amidu’s rasping effort was acrobatically blocked by Muchambo. Augusto scored Chicken Inn’s second in the 59th minute, benefiting from an assist by Xolani Ndlovu, after some fine passing football from the Gamecocks. Manica could have pulled one back in the 67th minute but Stephen Sibanda’s curling effort brushed the top side of the crossbar after a defensive mix-up by the visitors defence. “We controlled the game well in the midfield and we took our chances, unlike the two games we lost back-to-back. “The win was very important to us, we were superior and with the way we played today we can challenge for honours and keep pressure on FC Platinum who have been playing since last year,” said Antipas.