The Herald Robson Sharuko Senior Sports Editor
Khama billiat has been bad, very bad, in his first season at Kaizer Chiefs where the Zimbabwe international has struggled to reproduce the fireworks he repeatedly displayed at Mamelodi Sundowns. That is the narrative many critics, on either side of the Limpopo, have been spreading since Billiat penned a deal that makes him the highest-paid player in the South African Premiership. By his own admission, Billiat concedes he hasn’t touched the heights, many fans expect from him, in what has been a tough initiation period into an Amakhosi team that has been having a nightmarish season which, however, could be rescued by success in the Nedbank Cup. “We can’t call this one of the best seasons for Chiefs,” he told The Citizen newspaper of South Africa in the countdown to Kaizer Chiefs’ Nedbank Cup semi-final battle against Chippa United where his wonder strike was named Goal of the Month this week.
“I have always watched them (Chiefs) from outside and they have had better seasons. It would be great to finish with a trophy.
“You always want to contribute as much as you can regardless of issues you have no control over like injuries and such. But anytime you are given a chance, you want to give everything you have. “I just hope that at the end of the season I will be able to look back and see my contribution as valuable. As strikers, we haven’t been scoring as much as we would have wanted. “We are trying to work on our combinations so we can create more chances and score more goals. We try to give each other confidence and support one another to make sure everyone given a chance gets on the score-sheet.”
He is always very brutal in his assessment of his performances, someone who always feels he could have done better, even in a game in which he emerges as the man-of-the-match. Recently, Chiefs announced they had handed a one-year contract extension to South African international forward Bernard Parker, which in itself, was a massive endorsement of his contribution to the club this season.
The 32-year-old Parker is four years older than Billiat. But, has the Zimbabwean forward been that horrible he should be the focal point of everything that is broken about this Kaizer Chiefs side who find themselves 15 points adrift of Soweto rivals Orlando Pirates in the championship race with just two league matches to be played? Do the statistics really provide ammunition for Billiat to be slaughtered, for having been a massive flop, during his first season at the Amakhosi or he is just being targeted because he happens to be the highest-paid player at the club and, being a foreigner, a lot is expected from him? Facts, as they say, are usually stubborn. Parker was the leading goal-scorer at Chiefs in the league last season, with only four goals in 24 appearances, and given he has scored two league goals this season, in the same of games, it means he has scored just six goals in the last 48 matches in the league for the Amakhosi. That’s an average of a goal every eight league matches for two years and, to top it all, he has received a contract extension by the club while all the critics, it appears, are only focused on savaging Billiat even when statistics show he hasn’t been as bad as they suggest.