The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE’S Lady Chevrons turned their tears, from the 2017 disappointment, into cheers on Sunday when they reclaimed the African cricket crown and took a step closer to the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup. The team are now bracing themselves for the final round of the qualifiers to be hosted by Scotland from August 31 to September 7 this year where eight teams will battle for two tickets to next year’s World Cup finals in Australia. The Lady Chevrons sealed their place at the final global qualifier following a 50-run win over Namibia on Sunday at Harare Sports Club. For the Lady Chevrons skipper Marry-Anne Musonda, and her teammates, the ultimate goal is to play at the World Cup for the first time. But they will need to up their game in the tougher Global qualifier where hosts Scotland, defending champions Bangladesh and the finalists from the previous Qualifier, Ireland, have already booked automatic berths. Zimbabwe, Papua New Guinea and Thailand have also made it while two more teams are expected to join them from the outstanding Qualifiers in Europe and the Americas. Musonda said they need to play more competitive games to prepare for the event and realise their World Cup dream. “When we go to the Global event to meet other teams like Thailand, Ireland, Bangladesh and Scotland; they are tougher teams, so definitely, all we need is more game time. “I think the more games we play the more positive we are, the more we also understand ourselves and the more we try different plans and strategies. “So, all we ask for is more games. Game time is what will get us through, I think,” said Musonda. The Zimbabwean women’s team missed the opportunity at the last World Cup tournament after they fell to Uganda in the regional qualifiers. They had represented the continent at the Global Qualifiers in 2013 and 2015 but they were stunned by Uganda in the regional qualifier two years ago. However, the Lady Chevrons came back stronger this year and finished the Africa qualifying tournament unbeaten following wins in the group matches against Nigeria, Tanzania, Rwanda and Mozambique. The team have not lost a game this year. They have played 13 matches, since January, beginning with the 5-0 whitewash of Namibia before cleaning the decks at the Triangular series that also included hosts Uganda and Kenya recently. “I am really happy, I think coming from 2017 when we lost it was very painful; people cried. It was very emotional for the whole team and even for the organisation. “So, coming here in 2019, we knew that we had to work on every single aspect of the game and also the mental aspect of saying we have won all the games against the weaker teams, probably, and not to make complacency kick in. “That’s what we really worked on and today it came together. The girls showed a lot of character and I am really proud of that,” said Musonda. Zimbabwe dominated individual performances with three players in the top five of the tournament’s top scorers. Opening batter Sharne Mayers led the chats with 216 runs from five innings while Modester Mupachikwa was third with 125 runs and Chipo Mugeri-Tiripano fifth with 119 runs. Anesu Musahngwe was the tournament’s leading wicket taker after claiming 10 scalps in five innings.