The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, has banned his players from accepting money thrown at them from the terraces as “appreciation” for a good day in the office. The sight of players being showered with coins and notes by supporters, after outstanding performances, has become common with the big teams in domestic football. However, the new brooms at the Glamour Boys have come up with a raft of changes to bring professionalism in their quest to get the best out of their players. According to club sources, Ndiraya has blacklisted the system of “Sunday collections.” Dynamos are set to face winless Bulawayo Chiefs at Barbourfields this afternoon. “Supporters had become used to throwing notes and coins to express their appreciation to the best performing players on the day, but the current technical team does not believe in such a way of conducting business. “They want the players to be focused on their careers and not on those coins. “The coach told them that there was no reason for that since they are getting their salaries and bonuses in full. “He believes that the habit has distracted players instead of benefiting them. “So, from now onwards, anyone who wants to give appreciation to the players should not do that at the stadium. “The coach has no problem if they meet outside the ground and they shower them with whatever they want,” said the source. Dynamos, CAPS United and Highlanders players have been involved in the practice. But DeMbare recently got a $1m boost for the season from Gold Leaf Tobacco, who promised to partner the Harare giants for the next five years. DeMbare are looking forward to continue on their fine path following successive wins over ZPC Kariba and Yadah in a mini-recovery since the arrival of the new technical team led by Ndiraya. Dynamos received a huge boost during midweek following the recovery of Cameroonians Claude Junior Ngahan and Vincent Mbega. Winger Ngahan has played only one match, since the beginning of the season, and Mbega, who scored the equaliser at TelOne, missed two games because of injuries. Striker Ngandu Mangala and defender Godfrey Mukambi, who were out because of suspension, are also back, but fullback Tinotenda Muringai misses out because of three yellow cards. Dynamos usually struggle against small teams, but assistant coach Biggie Zuze sounded upbeat ahead of the trip to Bulawayo yesterday. “I think we are done with our preparations for the match, but it’s a dangerous game for us,’’ he said. “Chiefs have nothing to lose and, as you know, every team that plays against Dynamos will try to do their best. “We have been telling our players that we have to be on our toes, it’s a dangerous team. “We watched them play Rhinos, they are not a bad side. It’s just unfortunate that they are not winning, but they are a very good side.’’