The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Gospel musicians have been challenged to take leading roles in events that facilitate growth and development of the arts industry. The call was made during the successful launch of the ZimGospel Masters Magazine in Chisipiti last Friday where local gospel musicians, promoters, television and radio personalities and pastors were in attendance. Speaking at the event, Deputy Minister of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Energy Mutodi said the magazine comesat the  right time as gospel musicians should be role models in our society. He said the magazine is set to complement the work of all religious organisations. “Our country needs the word of God and men and women who are representing God’s vision in the marketplace and who can both inspire and be role models to others. ‘‘ZimGospel Masters is a Christian, trans-denominational monthly magazine which serves to provide news reports on topics dealing with Christian music, communities, current events and all other subject fields with a Christian bias to the form from the breadth of Christian spectrum and to general public,” he said. He said the editors of the magazine promised to ensure rigorous fulfilment of ethical standards of journalism. “Our Government acknowledges the responsibilities and influential power of a free press in a modern society and urges the media to be committed to respecting the rights and duties provided for in the Constitution of Zimbabwe and the Code of Ethics of journalists’ unions in the country. People have hunger for the truth,” he said. Deputy Minister Mutodi said the magazine had a vital role to play in uniting and developing the nation of Zimbabwe and promoting peace and love among citizens. “It is very gratifying to be part of the launch of such a strategic body in Zimbabwe and Africa’s communications space as most Zimbabweans are Christians, but there is little space for the religion in the mainstream media. ‘‘Most Christians find stories on the pages of mainstream media contrary to their Christian beliefs, hence the need for a gospel magazine in the market. ‘‘As Government we applaud the magazine’s vision to seek to be change-makers by provoking, inspiring and engaging readers,” he said. Great Light Publishers director of operations Munei Nyoni said the magazine will have both print and online versions.