The Herald Oscar Rusenga in TRIANGLE
Manica Diamonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1)1
Telone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1)1
FORMER Dynamos winger Emmanuel Mandiranga was the toast of the day yesterday when he salvaged a point for impressive TelOne against fellow newboys Manica Diamonds at Gibbo. TelOne dominated their hosts and had more attempts on goal in the first half but they found themselves trailing after Stanley Ngala put the hosts ahead against run of play early in the first half. However, the Wi-Fi Boys were rewarded for their industry, just after the half hour mark, when Mandiranga dribbled past the Manica Diamonds defence before unleashing an unstoppable shot that rested in the roof of the net. The two sides played entertaining football but it was the Wi-Fi Boys who played like a seasoned side and could have gone ahead with only eight minutes on the clock. Elasto Chigora was presented with a good chance but he pushed his effort wide with the first open chance of the encounter.
Chigora was a menace for the Gem Boys’ defence and was unlucky not to score in the 19th minute as his effort came off the furniture with Tafadzwa Dube a beaten man. TelOne were punished a minute later as Manica scored with their first attempt on goal.
Ngala headed home Patson Jaure’s freekick to give the home side the lead against the run of play, beating goalkeeper Raphael Pitisi hands down. Man-of-the-match Tawana Chikore had a chance to equalise from a set piece but his effort from distance crashed against the crossbar in the 21st minute. Manica pushed for the winner in the second half but their only chance came through substitute Benjamin Marere whose effort, from close range, flew over the bar. TelOne coach Jairos Tapera was happy with his team’s performance but felt they could have collected all points.
“We played well, we created chances in the first half. We could have been ahead in the first 15 minutes but we were unlucky not to score. “We hit the cross bar twice in the opening minutes and, immediately, they scored when they got their half chance and I feel that was a let down because we were not clinical”, he said. His counterpart, Luke Masomere, was happy with result as he felt the draw was the best result.
“This was the fairest result. TelOne had a good first half and we controlled the second and I am comfortable and happy with the result. “I want to thank Triangle, the owners of this stadium. We got a very good reception when we came here.
“We never felt we were playing away from home because of the hospitality they gave us. We want to thank our supporters here in the Lowveld but our next home we will be playing at Vengere and we will strive to make them happy”, he said.