The Herald From Kuda Bwititi  in Beijing, China
Zimbabweans living abroad should use their expertise to unlock developmental opportunities back home, Zanu-PF national chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri has said. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri made the remarks while addressing Zimbabweans resident in China, who included Zanu-PF’s Far East Asia Chapter (FEAC) district members. The Zanu-PF national chair, who is heading a high-powered delegation of senior party members in China for an exchange visit, said economic challenges currently facing the country can be busted if learned youths prime their skills to develop practical solutions to the country’s economic challenges. “When you are studying abroad, do not think that you should just come back home and stand in line to get a job. As Government we want you to bring solutions that can develop the country. We want you to bring what you have learnt here so that you can partner with investors and bring projects that can take the country forward. “Our economic challenges present a lot of opportunities for you to take up through tangible ideas.” Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri said Zimbabwe’s friendship with China offers massive opportunities for Zimbabwe to learn from its trusted friend. “The ball is in your court to do the right thing. China has advanced tremendously and has the latest technology. China is our friend which is going to play an important role in our development. It is up to you the young people who need to emulate what China has done and bring such projects back home. “If you do that we will be able to take our country forward in line with the President’s vision to achieve a middle income economy by 2030.” In his address at the meeting, Zanu-PF national political commissar Cde Engelbert Rugeje explained the road that the party has travelled since the 2018 election, adding Zanu PF had dubbed 2019 “the year of strengthening the party.” The meeting was also attended by Zimbabwe’s envoy to China, Ambassador Paul Chikawa and embassy staff.