The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent
THE sons of mbira music maestro Sekuru Gweshe (real name David Tafanei Gweshe) have vowed to keep his legacy alive. Sekuru Gweshe lost a three-month battle with prostate cancer on Sunday afternoon at his Dzivaresekwa home. He is survived by three wives and 23 children. Sekuru Gweshe’s sons Solomon (43) and Norodon (26) were introduced to the music industry at an early age. Though Solomon had taken a break from music, his younger brother Norodon has been active working as part of his father’s Boterekwa Band. The pair promised to work together, with Solomon taking his father’s death as a wakeup call to revisit his music career.  Norodon, who has been borrowing from his father’s template, teaching traditional music and dance in schools, said he will emulate his father. “I was first introduced to music at the age of six, learning different instruments, including marimba, mbira, drums and guitars. “I worked with my father for years, learning from him. During our years together I also started my own band Kutandara Musical Souls with which I recorded my album “Pamafungiro” released in April,” he said. Norodon also appealed for financial assistance to bury his father. “As great as he was as an artiste, he did not have a funeral policy, so at the moment we are trying to mobilise resources, so that we can give him the honourable send-off he deserves,” he said. Sungura artiste, Somandla Ndebele, who resides in Sekuru Gweshe’s neighbourhood described the late musician as a gentle soul. “I knew Sekuru Gweshe from my childhood years. I grew up listening to his music, until I also joined the industry, but not once did I have a quarrel with him nor did I hear of him quarrelling with any other musician. “This year has just taken a lot from us as an arts industry; first Tuku, then Charles Mungoshi, Tedious Matsito, and now we have lost another hero, who exported our culture,” said Ndebele. Born in 1940, Sekuru Gweshe first fell in love with traditional music at the age of 14. He recorded his debut album “Mhuri YekwaGweshe” in the late 1970s with Felix Mabhena. The album’s success saw him releasing hit singles, including “Nehoreka” and “Bhurugwa Renzungu” and “Zevezeve Rina Vatete”, recorded with the help of the late Jordan Chataika. In 1977, Sekuru Gweshe founded the dance troupe Boterekwa through which he has trained seven generations of dancers, touring countries such as Germany, Australia, Mexico, Denmark, Netherlands, Switzerland, Malaysia and UK. Mourners are gathered at house number 738/A Derere Street Dzivaresekwa 2. Sekuru Gweshe is expected to be laid to rest at his rural home in Chiweshe. Well-wishers can donate towards the funeral through Ecocash number 0779341590 (Fungai Tauzeni).