The Herald Takudzwa Chihambakwe
US-based, Zimbabwean actor, Ratidzo Mambo says the local film sector has potential to grow but people need to be trained.
She revealed this in an exclusive interview with Zimpapers Television Network (ZTN). “Zimbabwe has amazing talent and that humbles me,” she said.
“At times I am so dazzled by the talent that I end up wishing I had the same attributes they have when I was at their age.”
Mambo who rose to fame after landing a lead role in the nation’s top grossing movie, “Yellow Card”, being cast as Linda Karombo says opportunity is also lacking for many players in the film sector. “I think sometimes in life you just need to have someone put a torch on Zimbabwe. I really believe that Zimbabwe is on a really good level right now and once we have the local talents noticed it will now just be a matter of them having the confidence to go out there and fly the flag with confidence,” she highlighted. Mambo, who studied Drama at the 16th Street Drama School in Melbourne, Australia, says there came a time in her life that she realised talent alone was not going to make her shine. “I have always known from the time I was young that God created me to entertain, to be an actor. However, there was a time in my career that I realised I was no longer connecting well with my characters. When I was a child actor I could get away with it but with time I realised that I had to study. I was of the perception that I had the gift and all but it dawned on me that I had to go study,” she revealed. The actor who caused a stir in 2012 when she featured in the comedy, “10Terrorists” also shared with us how fatigue almost forced out of acting. “Whilst I was still in Australia, I worked on a children’s television drama show on Nickelodeon and at the same time I had booked a massive theatre show at the Melbourne theatre company. “I would wake up at 4 am and work none stop till late night. My muscles began to give in.
“I then met renowned drama coach, actor and director, Larry Moss who taught me how to manoeuvre through my tight schedule. After being exposed to him I started to approach my craft in a very different way. I learnt something from him and I keep learning new things as I network with different people,” she explained. When she moved from Australia to Los Angeles, Mambo featured in the sold out show, “Left to Tell”.
She has also been involved in American shows such as Yard Sale, Fashion Fair and American Day.