The Herald Elita Chikwati Senior Reporter
The World Bank has mobilised US$700 million to assist the three countries hit by Cyclone Idai with Zimbabwe expected to receive US$75 million. Mozambique and Malawi are also set to benefit from the US$700 million. The US$75 million meant for Zimbabwe will be channelled through the select United Nations agencies to support the people of Zimbabwe. In a statement yesterday, World Bank said the funds will go towards a harmonised multi-sector livelihood support and recovery operation focused on social welfare and community interventions. “The World Bank is activating the International Development Association (IDA) Crisis Response Window (CRW) to provide up to $545 million in total for the three affected countries. “This is in addition to nearly $150 million in resources that have recently been made available from existing projects. “Together, total World Bank support to the three countries’ recovery reaches around $700 million. The World Bank Group is working closely with our partners to help the population recover from these terrible storms, build back stronger than before, and improve countries’ resilience to natural disasters. “Mozambique, the country hardest hit by the cyclone, will receive $350 million in CRW financing to re-establish the water supply, rebuild damaged public infrastructure and crops, and support disease prevention, food security, social protection, and early warning systems in the impacted communities,” read the statement. For Malawi, the CRW will provide $120 million in financing to restore agricultural livelihoods, reconstruct priority infrastructure, and support disease surveillance. Government sent an international US$612 million international appeal to receive urgent attention from its development partners. For food and nutrition, Government is seeking US$292 million, US$51 million for development and implementation of waste management plans, US$75 million for tents, schools, health facilities, non-food items and other social amenities. The country needs US$5,1 million for health service provision with special focus on maternal, new born and child health, US$10 million for education, US$20 million for establishment of one stop centres for victims of gender-based violence, foster care arrangements, safe shelters, disability sensitive arrangements, children’s places of safety, women’s sanitary ware and provision of psycho-social support. Another US$155 million is required to restore telecommunication connectivity and provide logistics support for relief recovery while US$4,5 million is required for environment, forestry and wildlife restoration.