The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Three local designers — Tapfumaneyi Munenge, Ishmael Tsakatsa and Diane Deadol — are set to join other 12 designers from across Africa where they are scheduled to represent the country at the Soweto Fashion Week (SFW) in South Africa. The fashion show will be held from May 30 to June 1, under the theme “Cowhide” where 15 selected designers are expected to showcase their creative talent on how they interpret the theme. Some of the designers were picked from South Africa, Nigeria and the United States of America. In an interview with SFW creative director and show producer, South African based Zimbabwean born designer and stylist Ngugi Vere, said preparations are at an advanced stage as rehearsals had begun. He said he was delighted that local designers are embracing the culture of fashion as it will also boost the country’s tourism sector. “Fashion is also an industry, and it should be taken seriously as it can boost the tourism sector. I am happy that we have the likes of multi-award winner fashion designer and stylist Tapfumaneyi Munenge affectionately known as Coco, Ishmael Tsakatsa of Zarguesia brand and Diane Deadol (Didi Couture) representing the country, joining South African designers, who include Konka Republic, KMD, Emboe Fashions, Freshwear, Negu-style, Color Blackness, FDB, Siania and Vohni Couture. United States-based House of Green and Clavon are also expected to take part,” he said. Vere said this year is going to be challenging considering that he too is set to showcase. “I can’t wait to produce the best show. I have been known to play with prints (Shona Accra), hence I will be showcasing my new collection Gillian Vere in honour of my late mother. I will be playing around with satin, silk, lace, scuba and cotton tulle,” he said. Munenge (Coco) said he is expected to shut-down the show as he will also unveil his winter 2020 collection dubbed ‘Wicked Winters’. “I am happy to be taking part and I was born ready. I am now putting finishing touches to some of my garments. I am going to unveil a surprise, and I am bringing along my two top local fashion contenders namely Lillian Madyara (Hollywood Lee) and Tari Eric Phineas, who will grace the runway. My collection was inspired by nature, hence I took note of the cowhide theme, and turned it into design creations that reflect classy, elegance and grace,” he said. He later hinted that he was brewing something for the local fashion buffs at an event to be held in Harare next month.