The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
ONE of Zimbabwe’s top track and field athletes Panashe Majuru is set to continue with his European tour today when he takes part in the International Flanders meet in Oordegem, Belgium. Majuru (21), a 400m specialist and a 110m hurdler, arrived in Europe from Zimbabwe last Friday and took part in his first international race meeting in Lisse. The small town is just 30 minutes away from Amsterdam, Netherlands, and he finished third in the men’s 400m hurdles in 53.57 seconds. First place went to Dutchman, Nick Smidt, in 50.72 seconds while his fellow countryman Martijn Meijer settled for second place in 53.47 seconds. “Last Saturday I ran in the Ter Specke Bokaal track and field meet at Lisse, which is just outside Amsterdam, and I came third in the men’s 400m hurdles though I had jet lag after arriving in the Netherlands the night before from Zimbabwe. “In fact, I managed to run a time close to my personal best. . .The experience was invaluable,” said Majuru, who was speaking from Amsterdam yesterday. He said he was now looking forward to his next race in Oordegem in Belgium today where he intends to give himself a perfect birthday present by winning a gold medal as he will be turning 21 on Monday. “In tomorrow’s (today’s) Flanders International race meeting in Oordegem I will be competing with other top athletes from countries like Jamaica, England, Netherlands and France; and I’m really looking forward to it as I’m aiming to take first place since I’ve now settled down here in Europe,” Majuru said. Majuru is running in the European circuit courtesy of an invitation from Dutchman Peter Wolters, the director and head coach of the Dutch-based Milers Foundation. His invitation was engineered by former Zimbabwean top sprinter and Olympian Lloyd Zvasiya, who is now based in the UK, and is a close friend of Wolters, who is a top Dutch track and field coach. After racing in Oordegem today, Majuru is expected to compete in the Harry Schulting Games in Vught, Netherlands, on May 30. Another international track and field meet — Putbos Meeting — awaits Majuru in Oordegem, Belgium, on June 2 before he winds up his tour of Europe by competing in the Gouden Spike meet in Leiden, Netherlands, on June 9.