The Herald Victor Maphosa Herald Correspondent
A lobby group, Coalition Against Sanctions (CAS), made up of various organisations in Zimbabwe and abroad to campaign for the removal of illegal sanctions was launched in Harare on Monday. Addressing the launch ceremony, CAS chairman Mr Jimayi Muduvuri said Zimbabweans were now aware that the United States lied that sanctions imposed on the country were targeted. The sanctions hurt ordinary citizens, he said. “It is now public knowledge that America was lying all these years to the people of Zimbabwe that the sanctions were targeted at few individuals and organisations in Zimbabwe,” said Mr Muduvuri. “What is left now is for Zimbabweans to come out, unite and use one voice in calling for the unconditional removal of these illegal sanctions. “It is important for those with knowledge to educate others on the effects of these sanctions and the impact they have on everyone’s lives.” Mr Muduvuri further urged Zimbabweans to unite and fight for the removal of the illegal sanctions, saying they are a barrier to economic revival. He said the war against sanctions should be everyone’s responsibility, as sanctions are derailing gains of the liberation struggle and economic growth. In his remarks, Zimbabwe Amalgamated Council of Churches spokesperson Dr Davison Gomo said the nation should unite if the war against sanctions is to be won. Dr Gomo said it is a pity that Zimbabweans have been living under the belief that sanctions were not in any way affecting the economy. “Sanctions were designed to make everyone suffer,” he said. “They are not meant for a few individuals as those who imposed them have made everyone to believe. “It is sad that people are busy insulting our President saying he is failing. They say that because they were made to think so by these liars. But truth be told, sanctions are the cause of all this suffering we are experiencing. “Let us stop blaming the new dispensation, rather Zimbabwe should join President Mnangagwa in the fight against these illegal sanctions.” Zanu-PF national youth secretary and chairman of the Zimbabwe Liberation War Collaborators Association Cde Pupurai Togarepi commended the CAS for the unwavering support to the Government’s call for the removal of sanctions. He said it is unfair for Zimbabwe to be punished simply for repossessing her land and called for the nation to unite and fight against the sanctions.