The Herald Sports Reporter
ONE of the continent’s finest football writers and broadcasters, Thomas “TK’’ Kwenaite, is in the country to produce a documentary about the Warriors. The award-winning South African journalist, one of the most influential voices in African football, flew into Harare on Sunday with his crew. He is expected to conduct interviews with the likes of Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa, assistant coach Rahman Gumbo, skipper Knowledge Musona, forward Khama Billiat, and many other players. Kwenaite is also scheduled to speak to ZIFA president Felton Kamambo, selected board members, and other influential people in the game, including the football writers. He has always been considered a good friend of Zimbabwean football, playing a leading role in capturing the moments when the local game touches dizzy heights, and has always considered himself a fan of the Warriors even though he makes it clear Bafana Bafana will always come first. The Warriors have been on the march, in the past few years, after years of decline and stagnation in which they failed to qualify for the AFCON finals for more than a decade. At the 2017 Nations Cup finals in Gabon, the Warriors were the only Southern African team at the football showcase with the regional powerhouses, Zambia and South Africa, both missing the trip. Kwenaite is a regular pundit on Super Sport’s Soccer Africa weekly show. “Kwenaite continues to influence the South African media industry particularly the sports arena,’’ says wikifoundry. “Kwenaite has been noted as one of South Africa’s leading sports and investigative journalists and has gained nationwide recognition for his hard work and no-nonsense approach. “He has been involved with various kinds of journalism, from broadsheet print with The Sunday Times to television with DStv’s SuperSport channel. “Kwenaite has even had the opportunity to branch into ‘new media’ with his column on the SuperSport website.’’ Recently, he conducted an exclusive interview with CAF president Ahmad Ahmad amid a host of challenges which have been tormenting the continent’s football controlling body.