The Herald Enacy Mapakame Business Reporter
Zimbabwe will tomorrow host the inaugural Investor Day Conference in Harare to foster interactions on unlocking economic value through capital markets. Over 300 delegates comprising market intermediaries, regulatory bodies, high net worth investors, retail investors, potential investors and government officials are expected to participate at the conference. Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube is expected to present at the event as well as officials from the central bank, the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, World Bank, capital markets regulator- Securities and Exchange Commission of Zimbabwe (SECZIM) and the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation Kenya (CDSC). CDSC Kenya chief executive officer Rose Mambo will be the guest speaker at the conference sharing her wealth of knowledge in capital markets. In Kenya, Mrs Mambo has steered the company to achieve several milestones including a T+3 settlement cycle, full dematerialisation of the market, several large successful IPOs, and improved efficiency and risk management in the settlement function of the corporation with a Guarantee Fund value that has grown over five times since she joined CDSC in 2007 and Zimbabwe anticipates to learn more from her. According to event organisers, Escrow Group, the conference will run under the theme Fostering financial inclusion and stimulating economic development through exploiting investment opportunities on Zimbabwe’s capital markets. “The event is meant to foster interaction and dialogue among investors; market intermediaries; issuers of securities; regulatory authorities and policy makers. “We have designed the programme to include presentations and panel discussions that speak to the needs of the modern investor and all the opportunities and facilities available to them. “The conference is an enormous opportunity to discuss and come up with practical solutions that will signal an immediate and emphatic response to the challenges bedevilling our markets,” said Escrow Group head sales and marketing Eliah Sarayi by email. Escrow Group are the providers of C-TRADE, a platform that has brought about mobile and online trading of shares in Zimbabwe and other parts of Africa.