The Herald A new report which appeared in the UK-based New African magazine which outlines allegations that a United States electromagnetic and geophysical warfare programme could have triggered tremors that were felt just before Cyclone Idai struck districts in the eastern parts of the country, confirms President Mnangagwa’s fears of a unexplained seismic activity. When he toured the cyclone-ravaged districts of Chimanimani in March this year, the President expressed his fears and promised that Government would engage experts to investigate an earth tremor that was felt in Chimanimani before Cyclone Idai hit the district resulting in heavy loss of lives and destruction of property. President Mnangagwa felt strongly that it was evident that an unexplained weather phenomenon had struck the community just before the cyclone. “We visited the area and saw that infrastructure in relation to roads has been seriously damaged and there is destruction of almost every single bridge you can think of and the roads themselves have been washed off by the cyclone,” he was quoted as saying. “But beyond that, it is quite revealing that some areas which we visited had landslides before the rains came and the local people say there was some sound which came earlier on and a lot of mud began falling from the mountains. Rains began falling two hours later. So, you can see that there is some other phenomenon which we are not quite clear about.” Pictures taken in Chimanimani showed deep cracks in the ground on a major highway linking Chimanimani and Mutare, something which pointed to the need to carry out a geological study of the Chimanimani and Chipinge landscapes after Cyclone Idai. Even though local and international weather monitoring services say there was no earthquake or tremor in the area on the day, locals maintain that two hours before the rains arrived, a very loud noise “like an explosion” was heard in the valleys around Chimanimani district. New details of a US electromagnetic and geophysical warfare programme are emerging and investigations are connecting it to devastation that occurred when Cyclone Idai struck. The development of devastating geophysical weapons as part of the United States’ Full Spectrum Dominance strategy is causing serious concern around the world. The US military’s High Frequency Active Auroral Research Programme (HAARP), based at Gakona, Alaska, is the latest electromagnetic, geophysical warfare programme to raise concerns locally and internationally. So much is the concern that the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) once interrupted its news programme to run a 15-minute documentary, titled “Geophysical Warfare”, to alert its viewers. HAARP’s origins go back to Nikola Tesla, the Serbian-American cult hero whose inventions have influenced so many of the technologies we use today. Tesla theorised about a “Tesla Shield” of electromagnetic weapons which, he said, would protect the Earth from missiles. He also talked about the possibility of electronic particles being turned into a weapon using a beam. In the 1920s and 30s, this idea became known as the “Death Ray”. Tesla’s ideas greatly influenced Dr Bernard Eastlund, an American physicist, who finally registered a patent for an invention that could be used to change the weather, disrupt communications all over the world, and might be used to deflect a missile attack. The biggest attraction of Dr Eastlund’s idea was the ability to blast enemy ballistic missiles from the air. Eastlund himself was interviewed by the History Channel for its documentary, and he explained that his original plan involved the building of a huge antennae, “big enough and powerful enough to make major modifications to the ionosphere. This was at the height of the Cold War. My focus was on the defence against a major Russian missile occurrence. The plan was to make a shield over Canada, over the United States, over the whole world, which a missile could not penetrate.” Sky zapper Eastlund told the CBC: “The basic concept was to build a very large antennae, then to utilise a large amount of power to beam those radio waves up into the upper atmosphere.” Asked if he had approached the US Pentagon with his invention, Eastlund said, “yes, but what I am not able to tell you is the details of what they are going to do.” The CBC said an American delegate, identified only as Mr X, called the journalist who broke the original story and said: “The maniacs are actually going to do it, up in Alaska.” The maniacs were in the Pentagon and he was convinced that they were conspiring to build Bernard Eastlund’s sky zapper under the guise of a nice research project deep in the Alaskan bush called HAARP.” Soon word spread in the Alaskan cold recesses and a band of suspicious Alaskans set out to warn people of what they saw as the US military’s secret agenda. Eventually, HAARP was designed and built by BAE Advanced Technologies, the company Dr Eastlund used to work for. Official construction started in 1993, and the first functional facility was completed by the winter of 1994. The project was jointly funded by the US Air Force, US Navy, the Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), and the University of Alaska Fairbanks, but run by the US military between 1999 and 2014. According to the US military, the project is “aimed at studying the properties and behaviour of the ionosphere, with particular emphasis on being able to understand and use it to enhance communications and surveillance systems for both civilian and defence purposes”. But if you believe this, you will also believe that pigs can fly. Judging from the urge to amass electromagnetic/geophysical weapons even before World War II, the benefit of the doubt should be given to Jim Roderick, an American anti-HAARP activist, who says: “The military is incapable of doing pure science. Science is conducted by them for application in weapon systems, for no other reasons.” Though denied by HAARP officials, some respected researchers insist that HAARP was designed to achieve the US military’s stated goal of gaining full-spectrum dominance of the world from outer space by 2020. The project was built based on the contents of a 600-page publication, titled “Technical Memorandum 195”, which the US military forbids its officials to publicly acknowledge. The US military is not comfortable talking in public about “Technical Memorandum 195” because it consists of notes from a secret conference on the breakdown of HAARP, where they were going to use the technology and how it was going to be applied. In January 1999, the European Union described HAARP as a project of global concern and passed a resolution calling for more information on its health and environmental risks. Despite those concerns, officials at HAARP insist the project is nothing more sinister than a radio science research facility. The EU resolution came with many bullet points. At bullet point 24, the EU “considers HAARP by virtue of its far-reaching impact on the environment to be a global concern and calls for its legal, ecological and ethical implications to be examined by an international independent body before any further research and testing”. But the US ignored the EU resolution. Rather HAARP officials claim that “the radio waves in the frequency ranges that HAARP transmits are not absorbed in either the troposphere or the stratosphere — the two levels of the atmosphere that produce the Earth’s weather. Since there is no interaction, there is no way to control the weather.” The CBC discovered that the small company that owned Eastlund’s patents was later swallowed up by a large military intelligence front company called E-Systems, which in turn was swallowed up by another bigger corporation that specialises in super-secret contracts with the Pentagon. In the end, by 2014, when more eyes and tongues became focussed on HAARP and the controversy over its impact on the world’s weather system grew, the US military turned HAARP over to the University of Alaska Fairbanks (UAF) in August 2015 to be run by the university. But nobody was fooled The Los Alamos Laboratory which was the principal site of the Manhattan Project that built the atomic bomb was operated by the University of California during World War II. Project Seal that experimented with the tsunami bomb was operated by the University of Auckland. So transferring HAARP to the control of the University of Alaska Fairbanks changes nothing about its essential military nature. In fact, the military is only behaving to type. Idai – experiment gone wrong? Why people are questioning if Cyclone Idai was caused by a HAARP event gone awry is because the cyclone nearly coincided with the latest HAARP research campaign on March 25-28 2019. Far from being “conspiracy theorists”, these people are not saying Idai was a direct electromagnetic attack on Mozambique or Zimbabwe, but that Idai could have been an electromagnetic experiment gone wrong. Since HAARP was transferred to the University of Alaska Fairbanks in 2015, five research campaigns have been conducted: (a) February 19-23 2017, (b) September 21-25 2017, (c) April 6-14 2018, (d) July 30-Aug 1 2018, and (e) Nov 29-Dec 3 2018. Idai’s landfall on the Mozambican coast on the night of March 14 was 11 days before HAARP’s next advertised research campaign began on March 25-28. All things being equal, one can safely say this research campaign might have had nothing to do with Idai. But, as we all know, all things are not always equal in this world, particularly judging from how the world has been run in the past, and continues to be run, by the puppet masters. Therefore the people who are asking the world to look at Idai beyond it being a mere natural disaster deserve to be heard, even if they are making fools of themselves. As of now, no one can say with an absolute yes that Idai was caused by electromagnetic warfare, or an absolute no that it was not caused by electromagnetic warfare. Only time will tell. But looking at the sheer quantum of the destruction wrought by Idai and the fierceness of the cyclone in general, one is tempted to say nature would have been more merciful if it sired this cyclone from its massive loins. — New African/The Herald.