The Herald LONDON  – Juventus have announced head coach Massimiliano Allegri will leave the Italian Serie A football club at the end of this season. Antonio Conte held preliminary negotiations with Juventus last month, in case they decided to part with Allegri, but Sky Sports News understands the former Chelsea boss has come close to agreeing a deal to become the new manager of Inter Milan. Speaking yesterday, Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola once again rubbished rumours that he could head to Turin. He said: “I’m not going to Juventus or to Italy. I have two more years here. I’m not going to move, I’m satisfied here, I’m not going anywhere. Next season I will be manager of Manchester City.” Allegri has led Juventus to four successive league and cup doubles and two Champions League finals during his spell in charge. Speaking after their disappointing Champions League quarter-final defeat to Ajax in April, Allegri said he expected to stay next season. The Italian will remain in charge for Juventus’ final two Serie A matches of the season, having already secured the title last month. In a brief statement on the club’s website, Juventus said: “Massimiliano Allegri will not be on the Juventus bench for the 2019/2020 season. “The coach and the President, Andrea Agnelli, will meet the media together at tomorrow’s press conference – Saturday 18 May, at 2pm (local time) in the press conference hall of Allianz Stadium.” Juventus wrapped up this season’s title four weeks ago, and have two matches remaining in 2018-19, at home to Atalanta tomorrow and at Sampdoria a week later. However, this season was still seen as a disappointment as the signing of five-times Ballon d’Or winner Cristiano Ronaldo failed to prevent Juventus being knocked out of the Champions League in the quarter-finals by Ajax. Allegri arrived in 2014 after four years at Milan and led Juve to five consecutive Serie A titles, securing the league and cup double in his first four seasons. They reached the Champions League final in 2015 and 2017, losing to Barcelona and Real Madrid respectively. -Sky Sports