The Herald Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS coach Tonderai Ndiraya says he has a lot of respect for the way Yadah Stars go about their business and the investment which goes into the club. The two teams meet in a Castle Lager Premiership tie at Rufaro tomorrow. Ndiraya wants his men to win as many games as they can, in these initial periods, as they start the process to try and stabilise the club. But, the coach has warned his players and their fans not to expect easy matches and believes tomorrow’s game is a tricky one. “Of course, we want to add points in each and every game that we play, but Yadah are no pushovers,’’ he said. “They won their last match 3-2 after having gone a goal behind. That really shows it’s a team full of character. So, we are expecting a very tough match. “I have been at Yadah with the Under-23s. I have seen what they do, I know how they prepare, they are quite a serious lot and we have to be serious about the game.’’ Congolese forward Ngandu Mangala and Godfrey Mukambi are not available for selection for the Yadah game because of PSL sanctions. Cameroonians, Vincent Mbega and Claude Junior Ngahan, are injured. “Of course, you would want to have all your players when you prepare for a match, but we haven’t been lucky,’’ said Ndiraya. “But we are confident with what we have. I think from the last match, Mangala is the only one who is going to be missing. “This gives us some bit of consistency in terms of team selection. We are, obviously, going to trust those who are going to do duty, but I have seen some good competition at training as we try to push up the fitness levels of the team. But, I think we had a better shape when we played ZPC Kariba and we expect an improved shape going into the Yadah game. “We don’t want players to be just running everywhere. “We want our guys to understand their roles and I am really happy with the progress we have made so far.’’ Former Ngezi Platinum Stars captain  Liberty Chakoroma has revealed he could join DeMbare after being sacked by his former employers. “I have links with DeMbare and I am likely to join them,’’ he told our sister newspaper, The Manica Post. “That is all I can say for now.’’ Striker Simba Nhivi, who was also dismissed by Ngezi, could also move to Dynamos. Yadah believe they have the capacity to spoil Ndiraya’s feel-good effect at Dynamos. The Harare giants have drawn one and won the other game since Ndiraya returned to take charge of the team. But Yadah coach Genesis Mangombe has been bubbling with confidence all week. Ndiraya has some unfinished business with Yadah after a defeat at the hands of the same team last year triggered a chain of events that eventually led to him leaving his post at Ngezi Platinum Stars. And, Mangombe believes they could get one over DeMbare. “When playing big teams like Dynamos we need to be cautious, especially in our defence,’’ said Mangombe. “We have to minimise mistakes and remain focused on the game until the final whistle, because if we look into all the games that we lost, we conceded too many goals in the last minutes of the game.”