The Herald Sports Reporter
WORLD Championships-bound Munyaradzi Jari says his preparations are on track after an impressive performance in the Copenhagen marathon in Denmark where he made the top five. Jari came fifth in 2hours 15minutes 33seconds. Kenya’s Jackson Kibet Limo was the first to cross the finish line in 2hours 9minutes 54seconds. In second place was Victor Kiplimo in 2hours 11minutes 4seconds while Gebre Roba Yadete from Ethiopia settled for third place when he clocked 2hours 11minutes 58seconds. William Nyarondia Morwabe was fourth in 2hours 14minutes 46seconds.
Jari qualified for the World Championships in Doha, Qatar, from September 27 to October 6 with a time of 2hours 14minutes 2seconds last year. “I failed to make the time for the Olympics but I am happy that I am able to run under 2:16 which is the qualification time for the World Championships. “So, I am in a range to do well in Doha. My plan was to come and run a good time for the race (World Championships) I am preparing for. “As from now, I am going to focus on preparations until September. I think I need to work more on speed, so I will be doing more 21km races in order to have a good position and time at the World Championships.
“And there are no major races for me except those 21km races in Zimbabwe,” said Jari. Jari said his participation in the race will also put him in a good position to compete in other major events in the future.
“The competition was good because the winning time was 2:09. “It was very important because it’s a bronze label race and it will help me to score points for future events and also to be in the top field for elite athletes in the world. “It also helps me to get invitation for such big races,” said Jari.
National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president, Tendai Tagara, said it’s an encouraging performance ahead of the global meet. “It’s a good and consistent performance from a world championships-bound athlete. If he could run four good 21km races, it can help to shape his speed before September. “He also ran in the qualifying times, which is very encouraging,” said Tagara.