The Herald Petros Kausiyo Deputy Sports Editor
WORLD Rugby have paid tribute to the Zimbabwe Rugby Union for taking giant strides to liquidate a debilitating debt that was threatening to paralyse operations at the association. In what should rank as a major show of confidence on the thrust taken by the current ZRU leadership, the global rugby governing body are now even convinced that the US$300 000 debt could be totally liquidated by December 31 this year. The World Rugby commendation came at the end of a visit of two of their representatives Steph Nel and John Bosco Muamba to Zimbabwe for a review mission on the state of the affairs of the domestic game. Nel is World Rugby’s rugby services manager for Africa while Muamba is the global body’s development officer for Africa. During their visit, the duo went through the 2017 to 2018 ZRU audited accounts and noted with satisfaction the raft of measures taken to achieve the debt reduction which included staff rationalisation and a freeze on salaries. The debt has now been reduced to $96 340 and World Rugby have pledged more support for ZRU by increasing by £5 000 the annual grant to the union. Nel also discussed with the ZRU the global body’s funding model for 2020 and advised that the “funding model was under discussion and was likely to change significantly.’’ He said 2020 could see the introduction of five categories: High Performance * Performance * Development * Growth * Membership “Your rating would determine the level of investment or grant advanced. The criteria of grading would soon be made available,’’ Nel told the ZRU. The global body and the union also tabled the Olympic Games qualification for which coach Gilbert Nyamutsambas’ Cheetahs will be taking part in South Africa in November. African champions Zimbabwe will join 13 other countries in a bid to secure tickets to the Olympic Games. World Rugby, just like other global bodies — FIFA and the ICC — are investing a lot in the women’s game and Nel emphasised the need for Aaron Jani and his management to also support and grow the women’s game and develop a club league for them. The Lady Cheetahs will also be taking aim at the 2020 Olympic Games qualification. World Rugby also suggested to the union the need to uplift the skills of their coaches, referees and medical staff and pledged more technical support “in any of the areas you may feel you need help’’. Before Nel and Muamba visited the country, Jani had also chronicled the strides his executive has made when addressing the ZRU board and members at their annual meeting. “The past 12 months have been busy, challenging and exciting. “Our major focus since we were elected into office was to stabilise  the ship and bring some semblance of order and normality.’’