The Herald Rebecca Kabaya Arts Reporter
Chinhoyi Univesity of Technology (CUT) final year student, Noel Munjanja, brought colour to Herald House when he exhibited works collected throughout his studies in partial fulfilment of his Bachelor of Science Honours Degree in Visual Communication. Dubbed “Final Lap” the exhibition, which closed yesterday, was a cocktail of videos, photographs, graphic designs, magazine named “Dazzling Sports Network”, web design, branding, drawings and paintings.
Munjanja compiled designs relating to all modules he learnt at the university. The Herald Acting Editor Tichaona Zindoga, who officiated at the opening of the exhibition on Tuesday evening, hailed the artist for the excellent exhibition. He treasured multimedia designing saying it needs patience, endurance and responsibility. “A multimedia designer creates content and information for various media including the web, television, adverts, sub editing, movies and video games. “Though they work in a highly technological field, multimedia designers generally need a strong foundation in art to be successful,” he said In his third year of studies, Munjanja did his work-related learning at Zimpapers. He got exposed to the practical aspect of sub-editing and was taught to manage the Herald website, video editing, graphic design, photography and advertising. The university’s lecturer Knowledge Mushohwe thanked The Herald for playing a pivotal role in giving their students a platform for practical learning. “I would like to take this opportunity and time to thank The Herald and Zimpapers for taking our students on attachment every year. This means a lot to us as an institution, and to our beloved parents we appreciate your unwavering effort and support you show by allowing your children to come and study at Chinhoyi University,” he said Rising artistes T. Mac (real name Tafadzwa Makichi) and Brighton Chinembiri entertained the audience with a single titled “Kure Kwatabva” and a poem “Musafunganya Amai”.