The Herald Business Reporter
NETONE has empowered young girls in ICT from the Harare Institute of Technology (HIT) after affording them an opportunity to interact with qualified female technicians at the company so that they get a feel of their day-to-day operations. This happened on Wednesday as part of commemorations to mark the Day for Girls in ICT. Day for Girls in ICT is commemorated on April 25 annually with the aim of encouraging and empowering girls and young women on the opportunities available in the growing field of ICT. The Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (Potraz) leads the commemorations. The rising mobile phone company invited the girls from HIT to its Kopje Plaza Building to shadow and have a hands-on approach to what obtains at an ICT firm. NetOne head for public relations Dr Eldrette Shereni said; “The lack of young women attracted to ICT studies is reflected in ICT companies and government agencies in Zimbabwe and around the world. “The ICT sector is currently male dominated, especially at senior levels. Fortunately, NetOne is looking to increase the numbers of women in the sector, realising that increasing the number of women at the top, positively impacts financial performance.” HIT lecturer Rumbidzai Chitakunye said most professional jobs have a strong technology component, hence the need for students to have an idea of technology. “Technology has become a critical tool in fields as diverse as art, history, archaeology and teaching in primary schools. “Tech qualifications will give an advantage in a competitive job market, earn a higher salary and give career mobility,” said Ms Chitakunye. Lisa Mazorodze, a HIT student, expressed their gratitude to NetOne for the opportunity and encouragement. “We are thankful to NetOne for this lifetime experience which has widened our horizons to realise the great opportunities for young women in the field of ICT,” said Mazorodze. HIT was granted degree awarding status in 2005, providing a hub for technology development offering technology programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate level. It is estimated that within the next 10 years, there will be more than two million technology jobs that cannot be filled because of the lack of qualified ICT specialists.