The Herald Eddie Chikamhi in HARARE and Oscar Rusenga in TRIANGLE
DESPITE a fine run that has seen them going five games unbeaten, CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe wants his charges to keep their feet on the ground. They travel to Triangle tomorrow seeking to maintain their unbeaten start. Makepekepe have bossed their opponents home and away in the matches they have played so far, winning four and drawing one. “It’s never easy to play Triangle at Gibbo and I would also want to believe that their current results are not a reflection of their performances,’’ said Chitembwe. “They have been playing well, I had an opportunity to watch them on two occasions and I thought they are doing very well. “Even their result against Highlanders; you know it’s never easy to go to Barbourfields and get a result against Highlanders. “Triangle managed that and, so, we expect a lot of difficulties going into that match.’’ The Green Machine coach, who recently welcomed back midfielder Ronald “Rooney’’ Chitiyo from a long-term injury, believes the side have benefited a lot from their fit squad. Makepekepe have a good blend of young and experienced players. Chitembwe is expecting the same dominant play from his players, led by veteran defender Method Mwanjali, midfielders Blessing Sarupinda and Joel Ngodzo and his key weapon in speedy wingers Phineas Bamusi and Gabriel Nyoni. “We want to give thanks to the Almighty because we have not had any serious injuries to the team,’’ he said. “The side that has been playing has been very consistent. We haven’t changed many things and it is basically the same team that started our first game. “Now, we are going into the sixth game with the same players. It’s not so easy to have the same team playing consistently for five games. “We have been so fortunate in that sense, but all the same we have a duty to go out there and represent the club very well. “I hope the guys will do the same amount of work in the game as they have done in training. We look forward to that.’’ Triangle are looking to bounce back after falling to Chapungu and Black Rhinos in successive games.