The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in BULAWAYO
Highlanders ……….. 0 Hwange ……………… 0 GOALKEEPER Ariel Sibanda saved a penalty but Highlanders still failed to register a win, for the sixth league match in a row, as they were held to a goalless draw by Hwange in this Castle Lager Premiership tie at Barbourfields. The Bosso players did everything possible to win and they don’t have a victory in 540 minutes of league action this season. Rocked by administrative problems that led to the suspension of two executive committee members during the week, Bosso still applied a business-like approach from the first whistle right to the time when referee Ruzive Ruzive blew to end the match. They relentlessly attacked the visiting coalminers but goals could simply not come. “They are things that cannot be explained. I really don’t know how I can explain this result where you create so many scoring chances but still fail to bury them,’’ said technical manager Madinda Ndlovu. “I feel pity for my boys but we know that scoring is an individual skill, you can’t train.’’ The first of the many chances for the home side came in the 10th minute when a Prince Dube’s volley, on the run from a Bukhosi Sibanda pass following a quick counter-attack, went over the bar. Dube return to haunt the visitors in the 27th minute but his glancing header from a McClive Phiri in-swinger again went over bar. “Highlanders are bleeding profusely and unless the bleeding is stopped and deep gush healed, it will turn sceptic very soon,’’ said Chronicle Sports Editor, Dingi Ntuli, on Twitter. “They need help urgently.’’ Chipangano, who despite being attacked from every angle still kept their shape, were given a rare opportunity to surge ahead when young defender Andrew Mbeba hacked down a charging Dingani Maphosa inside the box. Ruzive was left with no option but to point to the spot. Upstepped veteran Gilbert Zulu to take the set piece but could not believe his eyes when goalkeeper Sibanda dived to his right to save the effort which an alert Adrian Silla had to be on hand to scoop the ball to safety. That proved to be the only real chance that Nation Dube’s charges had, literally for the entire 90 minutes. “It was an entertaining game, we kept to our game plan where we were also hoping to catch them on counter attacks but we failed, however, a point on the road is good for us, we can’t complain,” said Dube.