The Herald Herald Reporters
Government has applauded the national clean-up campaign around the country for the positives that it has brought to the country since its launch last year. Speaking during the defence forces clean-up in the Africa Unity Square in Harare yesterday, Defence and War Veterans Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri said the tourism sector has benefited from the national clean-up campaign. “What is pleasant is that our rivers are improving because we are clearing the plastics that have been found in the rivers and also the plastics that have been chocking our fish which we also depend on for our protein,” she said. Minister Muchinguri-Kashiri said people should be careful of the toxic chemicals that might find their way into rivers because they are also part of waste. “It is not about the dry litter that we deal with but we also need to be wary of the toxic chemicals that go into our rivers. It is very expensive to clean up the water. As you know, Harare uses nine chemicals as compared to other cities like Mutare, that uses only two.” Meanwhile, the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development yesterday partnered St Peter’s Kubatana High School in Highfield, Harare, in a clean-up campaign as a way of upholding a clean environment that is free from disease. Speaking on behalf of Minister Professor Amon Murwira, director in the ministry Mr Thomas Pasipamire said that society must embrace hygiene and ensure the areas they live are clean. “Societies must embrace the process of hygiene and ensure that they learn from the culture of Rwanda where the communities are always clean. “We urge the City of Harare to continue placing bins in communities and institutions so that we avoid diseases such as cholera,” he said. In Mashonaland West, Provincial Affairs Minister Mary Mliswa-Chikoka was joined by Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi in sweeping streets in Chegutu Town. The clean-up campaign started at the Chegutu Municipality Town House going through the central business district.
Minister Mliswa-Chikoka was accompanied by provincial administrator Ms Ceceilia Chitiyo, director in her office Mr Douglas Chiwiro, Chegutu West legislator Cde Dexter Nduna and his Chegutu East counterpart Cde Webster Shamu. Zanu-PF provincial members, council and rural district council officials and ZCC Mbungo church members were among the participants. In Matabeleland South, Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Abednico Ncube led the clean-up initiative at Beitbridge Border Post on behalf of the First Lady, Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa. The First Lady could not make it to Beitbridge due to other commitments in cyclone-ravaged Chimanimani.
He said: “This being the border town, it is the gateway to the country for those entering from South Africa and its outlook gives a lasting impression of what to expect in Zimbabwe. “This is one of the busiest ports of entry where we must maintain the highest level of cleanliness and I also urged those charged with enforcing environmental laws to descend hard on litter bugs.” Beitbridge Deputy Mayor Cllr Munyaradzi Chitsunge said maintaining a clean and safe environment would only be a success story where there was a collective effort from all stakeholders. In Masvingo province, Minister of State Ezra Chadzamira led business community representatives to clean the busy Croco Motors bus stop, along the Masvingo-Harare Road. After the clean-up, Minister Chadzamira also attended the belated World Workplace Day commemorations at the civic centre led by the National Social Security Authority (NSSA). Minister Chadzamira hailed the business community and Government departments for supporting President Mnangagwa’s initiative to clean the environment on the first Friday of every month. “We are happy that many stakeholders are taking heed of President Mnangagwa’s call to clean our environment,” he said.
In Mutare, Town Clerk Mr Joshua Maligwa led various organisations in the city’s clean-up at the Sakubva Musika long-distance bus terminus. The Zimbabwe National Army, council workers, Environmental Management Agency (EMA) and various churches participated in the clean-up. EMA’s environmental education and publicity officer for Manicaland, Mrs Alice Rutsvara, said they had observed an improvement in yesterday’s national clean-up campaign in Manicaland.