The Herald LONDON. — Andy Ruiz (Jnr) has vowed to ruin Anthony Joshua’s ambitions of becoming the undisputed world champion when he challenges Britain’s heavyweight boxing star at Madison Square Garden on June 1. The California-based Mexican has been confirmed as the new opponent for Joshua’s US debut in New York after Jarrell Miller failed a drug test, meaning the 29-year-old will instead target the WBA “Super”, IBF and WBO titles at the famous Manhattan venue. Ruiz (Jnr) is fresh from a destructive win over Alexander Dimitrenko, who was stopped after five rounds earlier this month, and he intends to rip away Joshua’s belts in his bid to be crowned as Mexico’s first world heavyweight champion. “This is my chance to make history,” said Ruiz (Jnr). “I want to be one of those greats like Julio Cesar Chavez, Mike Tyson, Evander Holyfield, Lennox Lewis. I want to be in that category. I think the fight is going toe-to-toe, two guys smashing each other’s faces. I’m going in there to throw combinations like I’ve never done before, to improve my speed. “A lot of people underestimated me, and I’m used to that. “My whole life people underrated me, so I’m just going in there to take all. I’m not going in there scared and I’m not going in there nervous, I’m going to go in there mad and to take what’s mine. “I think being so tall he fights like a big robot. I think with my style, my speed, my movement, I don’t think he’s fought anybody like me. It’s going to be a whole different ball game. “All the guys that he’s fought, they usually run around from him. I don’t think he’s good going back. I’m going to bring the pressure, the speed, and the combinations to him. When I do pull out this win, everything is going to change. I’m going to bring the titles back to Mexico, it’s going to mean everything. “I’m going to be able to change my whole family’s lives; my life and all my kids’. It’s a win-win situation right now, but the main thing is to win the fight and make history.” In his first world title fight, Ruiz (Jnr) suffered a razor-thin majority decision loss to Joseph Parker for the WBO belt in 2016, which is the sole blemish on his record, including 32 victories and 21 stoppages.— Sky Sports.