The Herald Talent Gore Arts Correspondent
Military Touch Movement has added another artiste to the stable and a new baby from the Jah Prayzah-run camp is coming this week. The new signing is Alvin Theophilus Nengere, aka Alvin Tha New Guy, and the new baby is his debut album titled “Big Dreams” that is set to be launched tomorrow at Wood Sensations Club at Longcheng Plaza. MTM is working in collaboration with Nash Paints and Avion to assist the 28-year-old singer in his career. Alvin Tha New Guy says he has been recording music for the past two years and has now decided to unveil his debut project. “Professionally, I started recording in 2017. I made a birthday song for my wife then got interest in recording more songs. I then recorded nine more songs, I just couldn’t stop recording,” he said. He took his music to MTM in a leap of faith and they gave him his current creative home. “The people at MTM heard the music and they were interested in what I was doing. I’m still yet to discover my genre. “Right now, I make Afro-beats and I would say a bit of RnB, Pop and soul as well, so it’s me discovering myself,” he said. Tha New Guy got to sample big stage performance when he was given a chance to perform at the launch of Jah Prayzah’s album “Chitubu” at Harare International Conference Centre in November last year. With a sound synonymous with that making waves across the continent, he may be MTM’s entry into the elusive global market which they have long pursued. “Working under or being signed at the MTM is a very big privilege and a big challenge at the same time. It’s also a good platform to start from and, as someone who is inspired, I am working under expectations.” He hailed the partnership between MTM, Nash Paints and Avion as a great collaboration that has helped him on a journey to his dreams. “I want to thank the guys for coming together to make this possible. I want to thank Jah Prayzah and Tinashe Mutarisi for their support. “Jah Prayzah has opened his arms for upcoming artistes while Mutarisi, through Nash Paints and Avion, supports various musicians across genre divides. They are developing the industry.” The launch will be graced by Jah Prayzah, Ex Q, Nutty O, DJ Tamuka, Rodney Beats and DJ Iroq.