The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
THE 2019 motor racing season moves a gear up with the staging of the TT Motorcycles and Jim Perry Transport Race Day at Donnybrook Raceway in Harare tomorrow. Tomorrow’s event is the second round of this year’s National Main Circuit Racing Championship series. It will see some of the country’s top motor racing drivers and Superbike riders “burning the track” at Donnybrook as they fight for the top honours in the different classes they will be competing in. Temba Mazvimbakupa, of the Zimbabwe Motorsport Federation, said that motorcycle riders as well as saloon and sports car racers were this week busy preparing for tomorrow’s outing. “Some high-octane main circuit racing will once again be the order of the day at Donnybrook Raceway on Sunday where most of the country’s top motor racing drivers and bikers will be in action at this one-day event. “We have 16 Superbikers registered and ready to fight to be champions. We are expecting Shaun Whyte to dominate this section. “In the cars’ Class A we are expecting Ian Howden, who is coming from Malawi with his Toyota Supra, to win the main race. “We will also have father and son – Jim and Hamish Perry – to battle it out in the two main events on Sunday and it will be interesting to see who will come out victorious. “We are also expecting competitors from Bulawayo, who include Byron Norman and Denzel Barner, and we will see some stiff competition on Sunday,’’ he said. Farnie van der Linde dominated the championships last term with John Cameron walking tall in the 1600cc. At the last man circuit racing which was held at Donnybrook at the beginning of March this year, Byron Norman ruled the roost in the Cars Handicap 1 in which he was pushed all the way by Cole Bond and Rowan Whyte who settled for second and third place respectively. All three are expected to be back racing at Donnybrook on Sunday where they will be joined by the countries other top motor racing drivers such as Hamish Perry, van der Linder, Jim Perry, Richard “Mahobho” Robinson, Mike Exton, Mano Zevgolis, Nick Berkau, Craig Goby, Ian Goode, Gary Kirk, Craig Green and Richard Exton. In the Superbikes’ Handicap 1 250cc Class, another “Battle Royale” is in store between Jan Nel, Ricky Whyte, Jessica Howden and Shaun Whyte. Jessica Howden (16) is currently the country’s top female rider.