The Herald Talent Gore Arts Correspondent
Afro-pop musician Tamy, real name Thamsanga Moyo, has decided to test the music waters in a bold move that has seen her engaging fellow female artistes Ammara Brown and Gemma Griffiths for a show at The Venue on June 6. Tamy will be the main act at a show dubbed “The Tammy Experience” that seeks to prove her prowess as an energetic performer. The event seeks to take Tamy from the shadows of being a supporting act to being the main attraction at concerts. The singer wants to wean herself from cameo appearances at events as she seeks to create her own story of music experiences. In an interview, Tamy’s manager Pedzi Chimbwanda said the concert was also set to prove that female artistes can make it on their own. “Our female artistes can do the same or even better on those big stages than their male counterparts,” he said “This year, as a camp, we are striving for impact both locally and beyond the borders. With an album and a couple of tours in the pipeline, this concert will be a debut of the complete experience we intend to create for fans in 2019.” The concert’s advance tickets are selling at US$15 or $75 on www.clicknpay.africa, while on the day of the show they will be sold for US$25 or $125. Tamy has a rich history in music, having shared the stage with international artistes including Joe Thomas and top local artistes like the late music superstar Oliver Mtukudzi, Stunner, Ba Shupi and Alexio Kawara. She is currently riding high with an Afro RnB track, “Kwandinobva” that has an accompanying video as an appetiser for her yet to be named forthcoming album. “Kwandinobva’ celebrates where I come from, but we took style references from across Africa, because I also want to celebrate the beauty and diversity of just being African. We also mixed it up in a contemporary African way that reflects the modern day African,” Tamy said. The track will be among many songs that she is set to belt out at the concert as she goes on ‘The Tamy Experience’.