The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor
THERE was no stopping Zimbabwe’s junior motocross champion rider Emmanuel Bako during Round Three of the 2019 South African National Championship series at BORC in Bloemfontein on Saturday where he won the 85cc Juniors Class in convincing style as he put down a marker of intent in his ambitions for this year’s title. Proving how formidable he is, when all in sync, Bako (12) showed skill in race-craft remaining cool, calm and confident under self-imposed pressure to win both heats as he went on to take the first step on the podium ahead of two South African bikers Deegan Bloomfield and Joshua Fletcher. Putting in quick lap of 1.53.453 seconds in lap 3 in Heat One, Bako then settled into his own rhythm up front, a mile-stone achievement given his best lap-time was three seconds ahead of Bloomfield, according to reports from Bloemfontein. This was Bako’s second straight victory in this year’s South African Nationals after he swept the board during Round Two of the same series at Zone 7 in Cape Town on March 30 where the Zimbabwean lad was unbeaten in the 85cc Juniors as Seth Young followed him home in both small wheel races ahead of Bloomfield and Fletcher. And Bako could not hide his excitement after notching up another convincing victory at BORC on Saturday. “This was a huge victory for me given that I missed the opening round of this year’s South African Nationals in Port Elizabeth in February and I had a lot of catching-up to do to keep myself in contention for this year’s title. So, obviously the goal coming in here was to put two solid motos together and to pick up another victory is a good feeeling. “I put a lot of hard work in-between rounds and I think it showed out there today. “And I would like to thank my sponsors Chicken Hut for their support, my dad Brighton for being there always for me and my coach Stanley Mugiyo for encouraging me to work hard on the track,” Bako told The Herald after Saturday’s race meeting in Bloemfontein. He received R2 000 for his efforts on Saturday. There were eight riders in the 85cc Juniors Class. While Bako was basking in glory at the end of business at BORC on Saturday, it was all gloomy for his fellow Zimbabwean rider Daiyaan Manuel who “high-sided” and injured his shoulder during Heat One of the 85cc Pro-Mini Class and was forced to miss the rest of the race. The 85cc Pro-Mini Class, which had a strong field of 20 riders, was won by South Africa’s Leonard du Toit and was followed home by Blake Young of Eswatini and Nate McLellan of South Africa. The South African Nationals now take a month-long break before returning for the fourth round of the series at Dirt Bronco in Krugersdorp on July 6. Dirt Bronco is one of Bako’s favourite tracks in South Africa and he is a safe bet to take the first step on the podium again in the 85cc Juniors Class if his brilliant performance on Saturday is anything to go by.