The Herald Ivan Zhakata Sports Reporter
Primary and Secondary Education Minister Professor Paul Mavima has appointed Hammer and Tongues chief executive Brian Makwabarara as the ambassador for the development of sports among the youth. This came after Hammer and Tongues, the country’s leading auctioneers, successfully hosted the St George’s Invitational football tournament for the past seven years. Speaking at the prize-giving ceremony where St Ignatius scooped the Peter Lovemore trophy after edging Peterhouse 5-4 after a penalty shoot-out, Mavima appointed Makwabarara as the ambassador of the development of sport among the youth. Mavima said his decision came after an in-depth assessment of Hammer and Tongues’ contribution towards the development of sport through the St George’s Invitational football tournament. “I have now appointed Mr Makwabarara the ambassador of the development of sports among young players,’’ said Mavima.
“We are a country that is looking for creative solutions to change the outlook of this country and Mr Makwabarara is the man who can help us do that. “I want Mr Makwabarara to organise the corporate players to create sports academies in this country.
“Just by appearing and participating in this tournament we are all winners. Soccer and sport are now an integral part of the new curriculum.’’ Makwabarara, who has also helped a Roman Catholic priest run an academy that has produced the likes of Kudzi Dhemere of Dynamos, said his belief was that the future of the country always lies with the youth.
“It is an exciting appointment. The passion and commitment is there as we are already involved with working with young people trying to promote them in sport at different levels,” he said. “The Hammer and Tongues St George’s tournament is not the only sporting tournament that we support.
“We have got few other academies that we support through our other companies and we have got quite a lot of young people that we also help educate which is, obviously, an important part of their lives. “The way forward is to start developing new concepts towards the developing of sports academies around the country.
“The minister has made it very clear that he wants representation around the country so I will be meeting with his ministry’s officials and brainstorm on concepts that we must build first and once we have the proper structure of those concepts we will further develop them and present them to the minister.’’ The Hammer and Tongues St George’s invitational football tournament features 25 schools drawn from private, government and mission schools across the country. They battle for the Peter Lovemore Trophy.