The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
VICE President Kembo Mohadi has encouraged ZIFA to consider wooing more Zimbabwean football players who are based in the Diaspora for national duty in the future. He said this after the Team Zimbabwe-UK Under-23 team, who are on tour here, met him at his Munhumutapa offices in Harare. Vice-President Mohadi said he is very happy the young footballers have not forgotten their country and were willing to give back to it through sport. “I am very honoured to have you coming back home and that shows how much you care about the country,’’ said VP Mohadi. “You feel very proud of your country and it shows the attachment you have with it and that is very good. “Your coming here on this tour shows that your love is unparalleled and it should continue and you have seen that the country is beautiful and you managed to take part in some matches which is encouraging. “We encourage ZIFA to consider you for national duty. It has been a while since we had some white players in our team and, with this project, I believe the organisers have laid the foundation for you (ZIFA) guys.’’ The Vice-President also praised organisers of the Team Zimbabwe-UK tour, led by Marshal Gore, for a splendid job. “May I also take this time to thank Marshal Gore and his team for managing to put all this together. “I don’t know how you managed to put this together to bring players from the United States, Australia and United Kingdom for a single tour with others making their first ever visit to this country. “As a way of appreciation, we urge those in charge of football to consider you in future, we know you are playing for well-recognised clubs overseas. “The relationship should not be a one-off thing but should go from strength-to-strength so that it will have results.’’ Gore said they were feeling very welcome at home and will organise more of such visits in the future. “We are grateful to have managed to bring this initiative together with my collegues and what we have experienced here at home is clear that we are welcome. “We will try to include girls in our next visit so that they will also be considered for national duty,” Gore said.