The Herald Prosper Dembedza and Geraldine Zaranyika
A Harare man yesterday appeared in court for allegedly teaming up with his four accomplices who are still at large to rob and kill two motorists on separate occasions after pretending to be genuine passengers. Gift Jongwe (age not supplied) was facing two counts of murder when he appeared before Harare magistrate Mrs Barbra Mateko. He was remanded in custody to May 14 and advised to apply for bail at the High Court. It is alleged that on September 14 last year, Jongwe and his four accomplices who are still at large hatched a plan to rob people around Harare. They allegedly went to Muza Shopping Centre in Epworth where they pretended as genuine travellers looking for transport. They were given a lift to Ruwa by Kelvin Karasa, who was employed as an additional Sheriff at the High Court and was driving a Government vehicle. Prosecutor Mr Sebastian Mutizirwa told the court that that upon arrival at Mara Farm in Epworth, one of the five indicated that he had arrived at his destination, prompting Karasa to stop the car. Suddenly, the other accused persons grabbed Karasa by the throat and tied his hands and legs from behind. It is alleged that they stole $82, a satchel containing returns of service, cellphone and demanded his EcoCash pin number. The five allegedly cut the car’s seat belts and dragged Karasa for about 50 metres into the bush where they sliced his suit and used it to blindfold him and further tied his neck and hands from behind. The court heard that they used a nylon rope and seat belt to tie Karasa’s hands and legs before tying him to a tree. It is alleged that the accused persons struck Karasa with unknown objects on the head before speeding off with his vehicle. Karrasa’s decomposing body was later discovered by an informant who was looking for firewood who reported to the police. Jongwe and his four accomplices used the same modus operandi on Isheanesu Kadenge (24) whom they killed and dumped near Mbizi Game Park. The court heard that Kadenge’s body was discovered by a passenger who had gone into the bush to relieve himself. It is alleged that Jongwe was arrested by detectives on October 14 last year following a tip-off. He then implicated the other four accused persons who are still at large. Meanwhile, five suspected armed robbers allegedly robbed a Waterfalls man of $7 000 and US$4 000 and a pistol at his house, the court heard yesterday. Ali Oman Juma (36), Chancellor Tinashe Tandi, Nigel Mutemagazi (23), William Kaitano (34) and Cliford Musariri (27) appeared before Mrs Mateko facing robbery charges. They were remanded to May 14 and were advised to apply for bail at the High Court. On March 3, the unnamed complainant went home driving his navy blue Nissan commuter omnibus. When he arrived at his house, he opened the gate using the remote control and entered into the   yard. As he disembarked from his vehicle, he was suddenly approached by two men. One of the gang members hit the complainant with an iron bar on the neck. The accused, who was behind the complainant’s motor vehicle, fired one shot in the air, while the other three gang members attacked the guard manning the gate. They demanded cash and other valuables from the complainant while at the same time assaulting him with iron bars and wooden sticks. They fired more shots into the air to scare the complainant and to make him submit to their   demands.       