The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
THE basketball women’s national team coach Mxolisi Ndlovu says they want to emulate other women’s national teams, which have done well, by winning the AfroBasket regional qualifiers in Harare. The team is in camp for the regional qualifiers which will run from June 2 to 8 at the Harare City Sports Centre.
It would be basketball jamboree at the venue with the men’s team also involved in the regional games as they bid for a place to represent the region at the continental qualifiers. The men’s national team have also intensified their preparations and started their main camp yesterday.
“We would like to encourage people to come and support the ladies. Women in sport have done well with the Gems and the cricket ladies team qualifying. “So we would also want to do well and this encourages other girls to take the sport,” said coach Ndlovu.
Although they are still expecting the South Africa-based duo of Emma Makoni and Stabile Ngadini, who are writing their examinations until the end of week, the team got down to serious business with double sessions. They are in a three-member group that also features Angola and Malawi.
The top two teams from the region will qualify to play at the continental qualifiers.
“We have great respect for both our opponents. Angola is a powerhouse in Africa basketball. Malawi are new but we respect them. “They have invested a lot in basketball and competed at the Southern Region Championships so we cannot take them lightly.
“We are looking to improve our basketball in the region and in Africa. We want to go and play in the qualifiers so we are looking forward to the matches and winning too,” said Ndlovu. Squad
Melissa Majonga , Nyasha Katsatse, Geraldine Chibonda, Roseline Maideyi,Mary Chawayipira, Alexandra Maseko, Charity Chigumba, Brandina Muleya, Stabile Ngandini, Maria Mutengo, Juliet Misihairambwi, Dorcas Marondera, Charity Mucucuti, Yolanda Matayataya, Francisca Sekete, Getrude Mapiye, Patience Chinhoyi, Cynthia Mambo, Sharon Chamwarura, Emma Makoni.