The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent
In a terrain that does little to promote upcoming musicians, leading radio station Star FM’s partnership with events company Events Evolution has seen many emerging artistes enjoying the limelight. A programme dubbed “15 Minutes of Fame” gives musicians who struggle to get airplay and radio interviews a chance to interact with their audience on Star FM. This comes at a time upcoming musicians have been accusing promoters of profiteering from already established artistes while playing little or no attention in their rise to fame. Several emerging talents including Afro-pop musician Tendai “Tendex” Madzviti, gospel musician Welcome Nhariswa and afro-jazz musician Fusion 5 Magwiro have been frequenting the show. Tendex said “15 Minutes of Fame” is doing great in promoting music. “Since I went on the programme I have moved a step ahead, enjoying recognition from many people who first heard my music on the show,” he said. Fusion 5 echoed the same sentiments.  “Events Evolution is one of the companies that run in a professional way and their partnership with Star FM has set new trends in the showbiz,” he said. “Promoters should emulate and partner with radio stations.” Events Evolution specialises in hiring out state-of-the art equipment, video screening, lighting and photography.  The company’s director Talent Banda said while their programme was mainly to educate the nation on technology, they are also responding to the plight of upcoming musicians. “Since we are company that is also in showbiz, we decided to give upcoming musicians opportunities to come and showcase their work on the programme. “We hope that we will have promoted a number of them before year end,” he said. The company has also been on a drive to educate people on the use of the modern technology in filming and events management. Banda said entertainment industry can only grow if the players embrace new technological innovations. “Last year we purchased a high powered PA that is being used at a number of high profile gigs in Harare. It was used at TD Jakes crusade and Kalawa homecoming concert, Casper Nyovest gig and we had the best stage for Econet at ZITF” he said. “15 Minutes of Fame” is hosted by Owen Madondo aka DJ Olla 7 every Thursday between 11.45 am and 12 mid-day.