The Herald Sikhumbuzo Moyo in Bulawayo
BULAWAYO football giants Highlanders have not severed ties with their chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube, despite a decision by some executive committee members not to renew his contract that ran out on Tuesday. Two executive committee members, vice chairman Morden Ngwenya and secretary-general Israel Moyo, reportedly voted against renewal of the former fireband secretary-general’s contract, allegedly against sound advice from the club’s human resources committee which is made up of labour relations experts and legal fundis who feared lawsuits if Dube’s matter was not handled lawfully despite his contract running out. The issue led to the immediate suspension of Ngwenya and Moyo. “I can’t comment much on the major reasons behind the suspension of the two executive committee members as that would be sub judice because the concerned gentlemen have not even been told of the crime they committed officially. You will know very soon why a decision to suspend them was taken, it was not a Luke Mnkandla decision as alleged by some social media kingpins  but a board decision, I only sign the letters as the board chairman,” said Highlanders board chairman Luke Mnkandla. “There is a reason that prompted the board to arrive at such a decision, its never personal but purely in the interest of the club because as the board we are the custodians of this club and we must always ensure its not led astray, we do a supervisory role but as I said people will know exactly what led to the suspension of the duo,” said Mnkandla. Turning to the issue of the head of secretariat, Mnkandla said he will remain in office until the end of the year when a decision will be taken whether to extend his contract further or not. “A legal minefield was picked by some of our board members who are fundis on labour issues. Its not that the board wants to impose Nhlanhla Dube as the chief executive officer, no, but we just want to do things procedurally and in line with the laws of the land, not the jungle,” said Mnkandla. Dube was hired as the Highlanders head of secretariat in 2017 and was given a two year contract. He took over from veteran administrator Ndumiso Gumede who is now the club president.