The Herald Arts Correspondent
United Kingdom-based Zimbabwean gospel musician Lewis Ngara has released three singles which are complemented by videos. The songs are titled “Let’s Praise the Lord”, “No Turning Back” and “Chivaraidze Changu”. The songs are already available on SoundCloud, Apple iTunes, Amazon,Google Playstore among other online platforms. Ngara is a dynamic musician who uses different genres and styles to produce his songs.  In an interview, Ngara said he was excited to give his fans something new in 2019. “I am happy with the positive response that I am already receiving from fans both here in United Kingdom and back home. “My music is appealing to different age groups and is enjoyed by people from all walks of life because it is mainly influenced by African traditional styles,” he said. “Let’s Praise the Lord” is a joyous song produced by Oskid, where the musician glorifies God as one who is worthy to be praised above all things. In “Chivaraidze Changu” produced by Gibson Makumbe, he will be appreciating his wife and encourages couples to continue admiring and loving each other while living in peace. Lewis works together with his wife Tau Ngara, who is fast becoming popular in the music industry with songs like “Jesus is Coming Back” and “Kumafuro”. Ngara said he was currently grooming other upcoming local musicians. “Having been in the music industry for quite some time, I decided to also groom other upcoming artistes with knowledge, skills and sometimes resources. “So far I have worked with Tinashe Mupambawashe, Forget Kuweyo, Sandra Chirenje, Clayton Gudhu, Carole Guvamombe, Alice Marandure, Shantel Sithole,  to mention just a few,” he said. Meanwhile, his song “Regai Zvikurirane” has been on Gospel 20 Radio Zimbabwe and Top 20 National FM for some timee. Ngara started singing from his childhood but hogged the limelight with his debut album “Ngariyende” in 2006. It was followed up by “Handichatamba naSatani” (2007), “Jesus is Calling” (2013), “Love Jesus” and “Ndisiye Ndisiye” (2016), “Regai Zvikurirane” (2018) and “Ndiri Mukundi” released beginning of this year.