The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
CHAIRMAN of the Warriors fund-raising committee, Kazembe Kazembe, has sent a passionate plea to Zimbabweans to rally behind their cause in mobilising resources for the team ahead of the AFCON finals. The 18-member special team is set to convene their inaugural meeting on Monday with the mandate to come up with a strategy to raise US$500 000 needed by the Warriors inside the next four weeks. Kazembe, who is also the acting Minister of Youth, Arts, Sport and Recreation, acknowledged they have a big task on their hands. “Our Warriors have a huge task ahead of them but it’s not something that is insurmountable,’’ said Kazembe. “They have some pretty difficult games in their group and I am convinced that with proper preparations and proper support systems, anything can happen. “They can do it. “So, it is important that they play after having prepared sufficiently, and adequately, and that to happen they need resources. “If they do well in Egypt it will be our flag, as Zimbabwe, that will be flown high and so I am appealing to Zimbabweans at large to assist our national team in whatever way they can. “There is no donation that is too small. “We may not manage to get exactly what they want but it’s worth trying. Whatever we get adds up. There isn’t enough time left but we would rather try.”. He said some Good Samaritans have already shown interest. “I have received a couple of calls from groups of people who want to pledge their support. It’s quite remarkable, given we haven’t held our first meeting yet, but some people are already ready to participate,’’ he said. “That’s the spirit we want and I am appealing to Zimbabweans, both the corporate world and individuals, because our team has done very well so far to reach the AFCON finals. “In the past we have come short because we didn’t have the best of preparations. This time around, the current ZIFA executive committee has done its best in trying to put together a programme in preparation for this tournament. “What they are lacking now are the resources.’’