The Herald Hello May!!!
Our winter starts late May and this is the time to start preparing and re-arranging your wardrobe.
What you wear is how you present yourself to the world, especially today, when human contacts are so quick.
Fashion is instant language. So when it comes to wardrobe essentials, every woman or man has different requirements but the question is how do you decide?
I believe what makes it to your ‘essentials’ list largely depends on your lifestyle.
It also depends on your state of mind or the way you feel.
We all wake up feeling different every day.
Some days we feel super-charged and in-control and other days we may feel delicate or sensitive.
Our clothes should be able to make us look the way we feel. For starters, your wardrobe should include pieces that will help you create outfits for a variety of different occasions.
You should also be able to create a few different styles with the same piece. Now usually, a white shirt is the most common recommendations when it comes to wardrobe “must-haves”.
White shirts or some prefer to call it dress shirts are one of the most important style basics in your wardrobe and most men have them shirts but often, they don’t quite work with the rest of their wardrobe. Same with the ladies and so over the years, I have had many dress shirts and learned a thing or two.
While dress shirts form the foundation of a classic man’s wardrobe, they’re often overlooked in favour of suits, shoes, or accessories, however, if you get your first dress shirts wrong, it’s much harder to combine them with other things and you may not get the wear out of them. With these dress shirts, you will basically be equipped for all classic men’s style outfits yet you really cover just the basics so you don’t spend more money than you ultimately have to. Basically, there are always three main considerations; colour, fabric, and shirt details.
Just like ladies who have little black dress (LBD), here are four reasons why a classic white shirt should be a basic, but essential, staple in your wardrobe. Style gurus recommend having more than one white shirt for various occasions, especially if it’s a good look for you. Being selective and choosing the right style will add fuel to any wardrobe. The top four reasons the classic white shirt is a must-have:
1. Distinguished by its simplicity, versatility and enduring style.
2. Sleeves can be worn long, buttoned at the cuff, or rolled up depending on your outfit.
3. A white shirt runs the style range of fitted and tapered, oversized and fluid, or menswear inspired.
4. The shirt buttons up to the collar for a straight-edge look. So which style to choose?
Optimise your wardrobe by experimenting with all three styles (fitted, oversized, and menswear or ladieswear).
Most women need to choose a style appropriate for their body type by the way.
This requires an honest, objective look in the mirror. I had a chat with my colleague about buying white shirts, given the power I would make sure everyone at work wear white shirt as they give a professional look and formal advantage. Again before you buy, consider:
– The shape of your shoulders are they broad, square, round, sloping, narrow, high — or a combination of several traits.
– Your bust size or chest. Do you have a small or full chest?
Would you like to enhance your curves or minimize them?
– Your waist. Is your mid-section clearly defined or non-existent? Is your belly a problem area you’d like to conceal? “These elements influence which style of white shirt looks best on you. You can play up narrow shoulders with a structured yoke,” said Trish Carmen, one of local fashion stylist.
By the way here is a little caution, if the shoulder seam rests too high (on the inside of where your shoulder ends), the shirt is too small, and vice versa.
Some people later asked then, how then should we wear the white shirt? For the oversized white shirt, it looks best worn over a skirt (short or long), leggings, tight jeans and shorts. You can wear it untucked, with an open collar and with the sleeves worn long or rolled up.
The classic white shirt epitomises a semi-formal tomboy style that looks perfect for the office.
The collar can be buttoned or open, depending on how you accessorise it. Layered under a knit sweater and worn with faded jeans is a safe but pulled-together look.
Simply rolling up the sleeves and adding a scarf creates a stylish effect.
A fitted white shirt looks great layered under another piece of clothing, such as a leather or jeans jacket.
You can wear the shirt over a tank top or shift dress. Whether for casual outings or business meetings, a classic white shirt adds versatility, functionality and elegant style to any wardrobe.