The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
WITH just seven games to play before the season comes to a close, the fight for survival in the Castle Lager Premiership football couldn’t be more intriguing. Just 10 points separate 11th-placed Chapungu with basement side Yadah Stars. The mid-week fixtures across the country are certain to produce thrills and spills as teams battle to survive the dreaded chop.
Financially-struggling Mushowani Stars have punched way above their weight, given their dire situation, but they cannot afford to drop any more points. They have 30 points, two above the drop zone, but they have a stern test of their character against Bulawayo Chiefs at Luveve this afternoon. Coach Newman Mashipe believes his charges are motivated enough to repel and counter the threat this afternoon.
“We have played well throughout the season given our background. We need to believe in ourselves in the remaining games,’’ said Mashipe. “The good thing about our match against Bulawayo Chiefs is that if we win, we are sure that we would have cancelled one of the threats. “But, if we lose, they will climb above us and we are in the red zone. This is one crunch match we have to win.
“We are going all out in search of maximum points. This is one of the games that we have to win in order to broaden our survival chances. “We are aware of their pedigree, especially at this point of the marathon, but we will do everything to win the encounter and enhance our survival chances.”
Just, like in Mushowani’s case, every point counts for the rest of the teams in this relegation predicament. Harare City, on 31 points, are also in serious danger.
They host second-placed Chicken Inn at Rufaro today.
Lloyd Chitembwe and his men are coming from a big win away at Hwange and the coach says this isn’t to look at the stature of the opponents but just to fight. A win against Joey Antipas’ title-chasing team will give the municipal club a huge lift in their quest to remain in the top-flight league. Herentals have an uphill task against leaders CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium.
“The main thing we are preaching at the stadium these days has always been survival,’’ said coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva.
“We are not looking much into which opponent is on the way, we need to win games. “That is the only way we can survive. CAPS United are a big team, chasing their second title in four years.
“We will fight for our lives. After all, we managed to beat CAPS United in the first round and what can stop us now?”
Chapungu, on 35 points, are not yet safe from the chop but can cement their place in the top-flight should they beat ZPC Kariba at Ascot. Basement side Yadah Stars will be hoping that all the other teams in the relegation matrix drop points today before they face Highlanders at Barbourfields tomorrow.