The Herald Herald Reporter THE Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) is seeking to engage an advertising agency, a media house, an expert or agency in data gathering and a digital solutions agency as it steps up preparations for Zimbabwe’s participation at the Expo 2020 Dubai. Expo 2020 Dubai is a global showcase to be hosted by Dubai, which is expected to attract 25 million visitors during the six months that it will be running, and provide an opportunity for Zimbabwe to gain global exposure in line with the “Zimbabwe is Open for Business” policy and its engagement and re-engagement drive. According to the Government Gazette published on Friday, the advertising agency will be tasked with creating relevant information, education and communication (IEC) materials. It will also assist with local and international media engagement and other advertising-related activities. In short, the agency is required to establish and support a strong branding for Zimbabwe’s participation at Expo 2020 Dubai; create visuals and copies of IEC materials, and assist in public relations-related activities among other things. The digital solutions agency is expected to work closely with the National Coordinating Committee in automating processes for Expo 2020 Dubai, as well as “creating and supporting Zimbabwe’s exhibition digital platforms”. The expert or agency in data gathering and projects profiling and presentation will be expected to review all provided “opportunities” such as the vast minerals, arable land, number of dams, highest literacy rate into ready project proposals, in consultation with the relevant and selected stakeholders. In terms of the media house, its roles include collecting or gathering relevant data, and processing information into various types. “In line with the preparations for the Expo (2020 Dubai), the OPC now seeks the services of a reputable and capable media house for the task of creating the relevant digital format, information, education and communication (IEC) materials,” read the Government Gazette. The media company will complement the work of Zimbabwe’s National Coordinating Committee on the production of marketing collateral and/or exhibition material for Expo 2020 Dubai. Expressions of interest should be directed to the Deputy Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet, Dr Martin Rushwaya. The expressions of interest, together   with comprehensive company profiles, should be hand delivered and deposited in the tender document at the Munhumutapa Building reception area by November 4. Zimbabwe will be participating at Expo 2020 Dubai, which has been envisioned to be a festival of imagination and  innovation with a transformative impact on humanity. The expo runs from October 20, 2020 to April 10, 2021, under the theme, “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future”.