The Herald LONDON. — Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has challenged his players to rise to the fiery occasion when England’s two most successful sides clash at Old Trafford tomorrow. Manchester United versus Liverpool is always the biggest match on the English Premiership calendar. “I always look at the next game as a chance. The Liverpool game is a great chance for us to go the other way,” Solskjaer told Sky Sports. “It’s in my nature to think of the best-case scenario. I know the fans and the players will be up for it. “We need to step up to the plate, and these are the big games that you sign up for at Man United – you have to show your quality.” Jurgen Klopp celebrated his fourth anniversary at Anfield earlier this week, but for all the German’s achievements in transforming Liverpool’s fortunes, he his yet to taste victory at Old Trafford. Liverpool have not won on their past six visits to United and left-back Andy Robertson warned that form will not count for much given the historical rivalry between the sides. “I don’t think it matters what your form is like in these games. It doesn’t matter that we’ve won eight on the bounce and they’re struggling. ‘’It’s Man Utd v Liverpool,” said the Scotland captain. “It’s genuinely a different atmosphere when you play against them.” In contrast to United’s misfortune, Liverpool have been handed an injury boost with the news Joel Matip is fit to return at centre-back. But Mohamed Salah remains a doubt after suffering an ankle injury in a 2-1 win over Leicester before the international break. The Reds can rub more salt into the Manchester United wounds with a first victory at Old Trafford in five years. Manchester City will try to haul themselves back onto the leader’s coattails with victory at Crystal Palace. Just eight games into the season, 15 points separate Liverpool at the top of the table from United down in 12th. The European champions have shot into an eight-point lead even over their closest challengers in City, thanks to a run of 17 straight Premier League wins stretching back to last season. By contrast, United have won just two of their last 13 league games. Injury problems that have contributed to the Red Devils’ early season struggles have struck again with influential duo Paul Pogba and David de Gea absent. City must bounce back to winning ways after a shock 2-0 home defeat to Wolves two weeks ago to at least apply some pressure on Liverpool when they visit Crystal Palace on Saturday. The champions badly missed Kevin de Bruyne a fortnight ago and should have the Belgian international back from a groin strain as they look to become the first visiting side to win at Selhurst Park this season. English Premiership Fixtures (all 4pm unless otherwise stated) Today: Everton v West Ham (1:30pm); Leicester v Burnley; Tottenham v Watford; Wolves v Southampton; Aston Villa v Brighton; Bournemouth v Norwich; Chelsea v Newcastle; Crystal Palace v Manchester City (6:30pm) Tomorrow: Manchester United v Liverpool (5:30pm) Monday: Sheffield United v Arsenal (9pm) Spanish La Liga Fixtures Today: Eibar v Barcelona (1pm); Atletico Madrid v Valencia (4pm); Getafe v Leganes (6:30pm); Mallorca v Real Madrid (9pm) Tomorrow: Alaves v Celta Vigo (12pm); Real Sociedad v Real Betis (2pm); Espanyol v Villarreal (4pm); Athletic Bilbao v Real Valladolid (6:30pm); Sevilla v Levante (9pm) Italian Serie Fixtures Today: Lazio v Atalanta (3pm); Napoli v Verona (6pm); Juventus v Bologna (8:45pm) Tomorrow: Sassuolo v Inter Milan (12:30pm); Cagliari v Spal; Sampdoria v AS Roma; Udinese v Torino (3pm); Parma v Genoa (6pm); AC Milan v Lecce (8:45pm). — AFP.