The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter NEWBOYS Mushowani, who are unbeaten at their home ground this year, have dared giants CAPS United to brace for a big test tomorrow. The two clash in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Trojan. Makepekepe opened a three-point lead at the top of the table during the midweek following the vital win over Triangle. Their new coach Darlington Dodo has silenced Doubting Thomases since he was elevated to replace Lloyd Chitembwe. Dodo has so far added 10 points from a possible 15 in their fight for the championship. And the wins in their last two league outings against Harare City and Triangle, who are led by former CAPS United coaches Chitembwe and Taurai Mangwiro, should have boosted confidence in the Green Machine family. Players like Ronald Chitiyo are also beginning to get into the groove at this important juncture of the season. However, Mushowani, who are unbeaten at home in six games, are looking to give the 2016 champions a good run for their money. The hosts’ team manager, Takunda Mutandiri, believes the newboys have benefited from an army of home supporters drawn from across Mashonaland Central. “The mood here is brilliant. Our supporters have been starved of Premiership football for a long time and the fact that it’s CAPS United who are coming has gotten everyone excited. “These are some of the big teams which they usually don’t get the opportunity to watch, so we are expecting a good crowd. They are enjoying it. “We haven’t lost a match at our home ground and I believe we are not going to lose one this season,” said Mutandiri. Makepekepe will be keeping their fingers crossed this afternoon as FC Platinum and the league’s dark horses ZPC Kariba cancel out each other at Nyamhunga. Chicken Inn will host unpredictable Chapungu at Luveve. Fixtures Today ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (Nyamhunga) Yadah v Ngezi Platinum (Rufaro) Chicken Inn v Chapungu Stadium (Luveve) Tomorrow TelOne vs Manica Diamonds (Ascot) Dynamos v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro) Herentals v Highlanders (NSS) Hwange v Black Rhinos (Colliery) Mushowani Stars v CAPS United (Trojan) Triangle v Harare City (Gibbo)