The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool recovered from the shock of going behind in the first minute to beat Tottenham Hotspur 2-1 at Anfield yesterday and restore their six-point lead at the top of the Premier League. Manchester United beat Norwich City 3-1 at Carrow Road despite missing two penalties to claim their first Premier League away win of the season and move up to seventh in the table. Unai Emery’s problems mounted as Arsenal blew a two-goal lead amid VAR controversy and captain Granit Xhaka feuded with fans in yesterday’s 2-2 draw against Crystal Palace. Jordan Henderson equalised after the break before Mo Salah tucked away a penalty to complete the comeback as Liverpool’s marauding start to the season continued. Harry Kane’s stooping header after Son Heung-min’s deflected shot hit the crossbar had given Tottenham a dream start in their bid to win at Anfield for the first time in eight years. Tottenham keeper Paulo Gazzaniga made a succession of superb saves to keep his side in front at half-time. Son almost put Spurs ahead with an angled shot against the crossbar early in the second half but it was one-way traffic and Liverpool’s pressure eventually told as Henderson fired home soon after — his first league goal at Anfield since December 2015. Tottenham were hanging on but right back Serge Aurier’s clumsy tackle on Sadio Mane after 74 minutes gave Salah the chance to put Liverpool in front and he made no mistake. Tottenham are without a Premier League win on the road since January and have slumped to 11th, eight points behind the Champions League places Goals by Scott McTominay and Marcus Rashford put United in control by halftime but they could have been out of sight had Tim Krul not saved spot-kicks from Rashford and Anthony Martial — both penalties awarded after VAR interventions. McTominay swept the visitors in front on 21 minutes, United’s 2 000th Premier League goal, and after Rashford was denied by Krul from the spot the striker made no mistake when he was played in by Daniel James after 30 minutes. Krul dived to his left to save Martial’s spot-kick but the French forward atoned with a neat finish after 73 minutes following a slick interchange with Rashford. Cuban winger Onel Hernandez grabbed a consolation for Norwich with a fine solo goal two minutes from time. Emery was already under pressure after Arsenal slumped to a shock defeat at Sheffield United on Monday and the Gunners boss has more fires to put out following his side’s dismal capitulation at the Emirates Stadium. Arsenal were on course for victory after goals from Sokratis and David Luiz put them two up inside 10 minutes. But Luka Milivojevic started the Arsenal collapse when he converted a penalty awarded by VAR after Wilfried Zaha was initially booked for diving. Emery’s team faded in familiar fashion after that and Jordan Ayew bagged Palace’s deserved equaliser before Arsenal had a late Sokratis winner disallowed by VAR. Fifth-placed Arsenal, four points behind fourth-placed Chelsea, have won just two of their last eight Premier League games and there is a growing sense that all is not well with the club. Xhaka’s remarkable bust-up with the crowd laid bare the simmering tensions. When Xhaka was replaced by Bukayo Saka, the disliked Swiss midfielder trudged slowly to the touchline while petulantly gesticulating to the fans who had cheered his substitution and were now angrily urging him to get off the pitch quicker. Xhaka’s incredible tantrum climaxed when he ripped off his shirt and stormed straight down the tunnel to more derision from the stands. The match finished to a soundtrack of boos from Arsenal supporters who sang Mesut Ozil’s name in a pointed reference to Emery’s decision to once again leave out the German star. — SuperSport.