The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
SOUTH Africa-based Zimbabwean scout Eric Bafana will be on the look out for top talent at the Nash Under-20 boys football finals at Marondera High School today. Twelve teams are set to battle for supremacy in the tournament jointly bankrolled by Marondera-based firms, Proton Bakers and Surrey Group. And Bafana, who acts on behalf of Cayor Foot Academy based in Senegal, has confirmed he will be at the tournament today. Bafana played an instrumental role in helping Tino Kadewere move to Europe. He is looking for a striker who will join the Senegalese academy at the end of this month. And he is also expected to shortlist midfielders and defenders whom the academy will monitor in future. The scout has been tracking academy players in the country as well as 18-year old Herentals striker Tino Benza in the last few days. “I came to Zimbabwe on a mission to get an 18-year-old striker who will be joining Cayor Foot Academy based in Senegal at the end of the month. “The player will be fine-tuned in Senegal before going to a club in Poland, Sweden or France where the academy has direct links. “I will attend the Nash Under-20 boys’ football finals in Marondera on Friday (today). “I am sure I will be able to identify a good striker with potential there. I will also shortlist other players whom we will put on radar going forward.” Surrey Group national sales manager Ranganayi Zihumo confirmed Bafana will be in attendance today. “The curtain comes down on the Proton Bakers and Surrey Group-sponsored Nash Under-20 boys footbal finals at Marondera High School with 12 teams participating. “The good news is that there will be scouts, including Bafana from South Africa, who will be searching for talent. “It is at tournaments like these where future stars are born,” said Zihumo. Already, two players from St Margaret’s Chigondo in Wedza have been picked by some scouts and are expected to be seconded to lower division teams. Chigondo lost 0-2 to Rusununguko High in the final of the Mashonaland East Provincial contest last week. Proton Bakers chiefs sales  manager Daniel Chipato said all was set for the tournament. “The stage has been set for what should be an explosive tournament at Marondera High on Friday. “We have invited several scouts, and we are calling upon junior coaches to come in search of talent,” said Chipato. Holders Chibi High, Gutu High, Rusununguko, Mpopoma High and Mt Pleasant have emerged as favourites to win the annual competition. Rotterview College, Kondo Secondary,Gwanda High, Tsholotsho High, Rio Tinto Zhombe High and           Mutambara High are some of the participants at this increasingly popular competition. 