The Herald Sports Reporter
TWO months ago, she was captaining the Zimbabwe team at the inaugural COSAFA Under-20 women tournament in South Africa. And, now, she is set for a dream trip to watch Liverpool at Anfield in an English Premiership match.
Ashley Inusa says even in her wildest dreams, she could never have thought this would come to pass. The 19-year-old Harare Polytechnic student booked her ticket to England after featuring for a men’s team, Tendo FC, in the Standard Chartered 5-a-side tournament earlier this month. She was the only female member of the team whose other players were Farai Bosha, Nathan Mangisi, Allan Nyachuru, Lincoln Saramaya, Peter Bunjira and Calistus Keche. They are all set to watch the Premiership match between Liverpool and Southampton at Anfield on February 1 and Inusa hopes to get a chance to train with the Liverpool women’s team during their tour of duty. “I hope to learn new things, starting from the area (Merseyside), their type of living, language, football, I hope to meet with the Liverpool female team as well and, if all goes well, I would love to have a single day of training with the team,’’ she said. “For me, it’s a stepping stone to greater heights and it’s one of my achievements through football and it’s all thanks to Tendo company who agreed that I play for their team at the tournament.
‘’I am 19 years old and I am an electrical engineering student at Harare Polytechnic.’’ The team Inusa played for at the tournament, Tendo FC, are sponsored by a company that specialises in electrical products.
But, why did she play for a team that was dominated by male players? “Most of the time, I always enjoy training with guys and it makes me gain more experience tactically as well as endurance,’’ she said. “So, I thought as much after a call from Mr (Chatanga) Badza (Tendo FC director) that I should join the 5-a-side team and give it a try. “I am part of the Mighty Warriors, my first calling at the junior Mighty Warriors camp was in 2013 when we were called for the Under-15 team and, from there, I have been going for the Under-20 team. “This year I was the captain of the Under-20 COSAFA team for the tournament held in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, in July and August.’’ She says, at first, when she decided to become a footballer, things were not easy.
“People could judge me saying that football is a sport for the guys and, with the way I dress, they couldn’t think that I could play,’’ she said. “Fortunately, that made me work harder towards bettering myself.’’
Now, she is set for a trip to Anfield.