The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter BETA Queens coach Phillemon Mangwiro has predicted a tough encounter when they face ZRP Mambas Queens tomorrow afternoon in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League at Barclays Sports Club in Harare. They lost the reverse fixture and have to find a way to contain Mambas seasoned goal-shooter Pauline Jani, who is enjoying good form. The World Cup star has led her side to several victories since her return from national duty at the global showcase in Liverpool, England two months ago. Mambas coach Talent Museka said Jani’s absence, during the senior national team’s Netball World Cup commitments derailed their campaign. And, yesterday, Mangwiro said they need to find a way to contain Jani to stand a chance of collecting maximum points. “It’s going to be a tough one, no one wants to be beaten by Beta and Mambas, they are my former team, and they also don’t want to lose to me,’’ said Mangwiro. “But I am hoping to win this game. Our biggest threat is Pauline Jani, but we will isolate her on passes. “We are going to fight for a win and I hope we can mark Pauline and play our game. “She is good and I hope we can contain her. If we do that, then we are home and dry. We need to deny her free passes.’’ That means Prudence Goreraza and Julie Banda will have to play big parts in the game. Mambas coach Museka called for focus. “Having won the first game provides a challenge for us as we have to go and also win the remaining game,’’ he said. “It’s my wish that we play our best game so that we can win.’’ In matches lined up for today, Ruwa Queens host Black Rhinos at Chiremba Council grounds this afternoon. Flow Angles have two matches today. They are expected to first take on Golden Valley before they play Rio Zim at Rio Zim Club later in the day. Fixtures Today: Rio Zim v Flow Angels (Rio Club), Ruwa Queens v Black Rhinos (Chiremba Council Grounds, Ruwa, 2pm), Golden Valley v Flow Angels (Golden Valley, 11am). Tomorrow: Beta Queens v ZRP Mambas Queens (Barclays Sports Club, 2pm).