The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
LEADERS CAPS United are yet to beat a team they lost to, in the first round of the Castle Lager Premiership campaign, so far this year. But, the Green Machine will be hoping to change all that at the National Sports Stadium today.
They take on a Herentals side that beat them 1-3 in the first round. Already, Chapungu and Chicken Inn have completed doubles over the Darlington Dodo-coached side.
They are yet to meet three of the other teams they lost to in the first round, including Herentals, Ngezi Platinum and ZPC Kariba. “Of course, we haven’t done well against certain teams after losing the first leg but that is only a statistic,’’ said Dodo.
“As a club, we were not even aware of that record. What is uppermost in our minds as CAPS United is to bounce back to winning ways. “We lost our last fixture (against Chicken Inn) which I believe would have helped us in a big way had we collected maximum points. “Herentals are not easy opponents at all. They beat us comprehensively in the first leg though they had a numerical advantage.
“It is something which shows their pedigree.
“They are even more dangerous now considering their predicament. They are fighting for their lives while we are on the top of the standings.’’ Dodo said champions are recognised by the way they are able to rise after a fall.
“We have to do what we need to do. Our goal remains the same. We need to win as many games as possible in the remaining fixtures to be able to get what we need,’’ he said. “As a team, we know what ought to be done. We should play as a unit in all departments and avoid making unnecessary mistakes. “The boys are motivated and ready to roar. The good thing is we have our destiny in our own control.
“We don’t have to look at what is happening next door but play and win games for ourselves.”
Chicken Inn will be hoping that CAPS United lose and they post a positive result against Harare City at Rufaro. In Rusape, Manica Diamonds host draw specialists Dynamos at Vengere while Chapungu and ZPC Kariba square off at Ascot.
Bulawayo Chiefs face fellow relegation fighters Mushowani Stars at Luveve. Action continues tomorrow with Highlanders entertaining Yadah at Barbourfields and Black Rhinos hosting TelOne at the National Sports Stadium. The game between Triangle and Hwange has been shelved to give the Lowveld side time to prepare for their CAF Confederation Cup play-off second leg tie against Nouadhibou of Mauritania at Barbourfields on Sunday.
Triangle lost the first leg 0-2 away last weekend. Fixtures
Today
CAPS United v Herentals (NSS)
Harare City v Chicken Inn (Rufaro)
Chapungu v ZPC Kariba (Ascot)
Manica Diamonds v Dynamos (Vengere)
Fc Platinum v Ngezi Platinum (Mandava)
Bulawayo Chiefs v Mushowani (Luveve)
Tomorrow
Highlanders v Yadah (B/F)
Black Rhinos v TelOne (NSS)
Triangle v Hwange (Postponed)