The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter
NIGEL “Spartan” Maphosa was crowned the 2019 Mr Zimbabwe at the 7Arts Theatre in Harare on Saturday night. The Gweru-based hulk defied the odds to beat several athletes in the Zimpapers-sponsored event. Speaking after the win Maphosa, who also bagged the men’s middleweight title, said he was thrilled to come out tops. “Getting here was difficult and I thank the judges,’’ he said. “I have worked hard to reach this far and I am now looking forward to taking part in some international contests in South Africa. I thank my team for supporting me all the way and I am happy to have managed to keep the Midlands Province in the limelight. “Growing up, we were encouraged by some body-builders like Isaac “Sugar” Chimuchenga and today we are emulating them by winning titles. In the women’s category, Kirsty Baxter, was the toast of the day as she won the masters bikini fitness contest. Kylie McDonald beat Colleen Wall into second place in the Women Body Fitness while Charity Juma won the women physique. The senior men’s body-building light-heavyweight division was very competitive. Edward Mutero won, Ndumiso Dlodlo was second and Mathew Humphreys finished third. Results Junior Women Bikini Fitness Demmi Ferreira, Morejoy Manjepa. Masters Bikini Fitness Kirsty Baxter Men’s physique up to, and including 176cm Genius Gweru, Prichard Hoko, Luke Gumbi  Men’s Fitness Chamunorwa Marange, Givemore Kamuronjo, Masimba Nyamajiwa, Donald Munashe Middleweight men body-building Nigel Maphosa, Lovemore Munyamana, Eliah Samaringa  Lightweight men body-building Francis Tatanca Chideme, Knowledge Mudzingwa, Talent Bonde, Delvin Page, Solomon Shlokwe, Wesley Sanders  Junior men body-building Gerald Gorden, Ryan Woodend, Zibusiso N. Khumalo, Paradzai Kureva, David Weir. Ngonidzashe Gwama, Thompson Jagada  Women Physique Charity Juma  Women Body fitness Kylie McDonald, Colleen Wall Women Wellness fitness Diana Georgina Machakaire  Senior men body-building light heavyweight division Edward Mutero, Ndumiso Dlodlo, Mathew Humphreys, Gideon Teguru, Alister Dimba, Enock Mugariwa Classic body-building Justice Fungai Chikava  Men Fitness Model Njabulo Mateyu, Robin Mozhenty, Tafadzwa Mikiya, Francois Joey T. Nyashanu, Devison T.  Luzane, Courage kadawe  Wheelchair men body-building Marko Mwale, Lewis Hlahla, Lesley Payne Gondo, Tendai Muzavazi, Pearson Tazvivinga, Mugoni Nomphepe Chikove  Masters Men Body-building Chrispen Tivaone, Partson Chatedzuka, Suwali Masiye, Domingo Lunga Men’s physique overall Tinotenda Ryan Gumbo  Senior men body-building heavyweight division Mark Anthony Valisatos, Irvine Dekeya, Simbarashe Nyamukondiwa, Kulekhani Ndlovu  Most outstanding female athlete Sharaine Charlaine Rama Senior men body-building overall winner Nigel Maphosa  Men’s physique over 176 cm Tinotenda Ryan Gumbo, CC Banks, Lancelot Ndlovu 