The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter A MOVING funeral service united the domestic football family at Danny Bismarck yesterday as the game gave a fitting public farewell to legendary midfielder Hamid “Muzukuru” Dhana. The former footballer will be cremated at a later date and his ashes will be put at his mother’s grave at Warren Hills. Dhana, who was 61, is survived by wife Bridgit, six children and 11 grandchildren. His body graced, for the last time, the stadium where he began his career with Arcadia United before he went on to star for Dynamos, Black Rhinos and the Warriors. “Dad you and your siblings were raised from very humble beginnings led by your mum, my amazing grandmother,’’ said his son Lincolin. “You took your place as one of Zimbabwe’s most loved footballers and one of our community’s most loved and respected icons. “Dad, I struggle for words to express how much I am going to miss you. How distraught I am that I am not there to say my goodbyes. “But, I know, that all that matters is that you are at peace. Dad, you are gone now to your mum and brother. “I know in my heart that you have been welcomed into heaven and you are finally at peace, no more pain, and in these times, that is what lifts my spirit. “You were loved by so many, and inspired so many people from all backgrounds and walks of life, not just in football, but in life itself. “You lived life on your own terms. I will always remember you with a smile on your face, a personality that would light up a room, a gentleman, witty and intelligent mind, just a natural superstar.’’ His daughter Shade, who is based in London and had returned home a week before his father’s death, said her father would never walk alone. “Reading your text messages made me so happy. “I am so glad that I got to see you and make the last memories that I will treasure forever,’’ she said. “You were loved by so many, and if I could be half the person you were, I would be blessed. “You were an amazing grandfather to all your grandchildren. “I find comfort knowing you are at peace, you had a good life. “Although I cannot be there to send you off, I am content knowing that you are with our Father in heaven. “Bridgit, thank you for being the person you are, thank you for being the wife you are to our dad. “May the Lord comfort you in the coming days.’’ Dhana, who was a staunch Liverpool fan, was a born-again Christian. His brother and friend Fred Frank said he was glad that Dhana died when he had received Jesus Christ as his Saviour. “Mids was converted way before he was diagnosed of colon cancer. That was God’s way of preparing him. “He fought a hard fight. He continued to work as a safety officer after he was diagnosed with the terminal illness,’’ said Frank. Football legends, Charlie Jones and Stanford “Stix” Mutizwa, Arcadia United’s Rummie Mahomed and Walter Costa of the Arcadia Community Centre all gave moving speeches. The occasion resembled a reunion of some sort, with the likes of Douglas Mloyi, Douglas Hunda, Doorman Moodley, Maxwell Joseph, Shaun Peters, Godknows Chamwalila, Maronga Nyangela, Albert “Dallas’’ Mabika, Patrick Bangura and Antony Kambani attending the funeral service. The Chidzambwa brothers, Sunday and Misheck, July Sharara, David Mandigora, David George, Kennedy Nagoli, Nesbert Saruchera and Agent Sawu were also there. Former ZIFA president Rafiq Khan, former PSL boss Chris Sambo and staunch Liverpool fan and banker Nigel Chanakira, were all part of the proceedings. Former Motor Action administrator Simeon Jamanda, thanked those who paid their respects. “Dhana was a great player, I watched him as a player and then we worked together at Motor Action as our coach,’’ said Jamanda.