The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter
ZRP Mambas Queens produced another good show on Sunday to overcome Beta Queens 47-40 at Barclays Sports Club in the Rainbow Amateur Netball League. The hosts, Beta Queens, were leading 22-21 at half-time. But, they failed to hold on to the lead as Mambas came back a better side in the third quarter to turn the score in their favour. Mambas coach, Talent Museka, made some changes early in the game, having started with goal-shooter, Pauline Jani and Sabina Gwekwe, as the goal attack before Lisa Masiya took over from Gwekwe in the second quarter. Gwekwe returned in the third quarter to partner Jani while Masiya moved to wing attack. The police outfit scored 14 goals against Beta Queens’ four in the third quarter to take a nine-goal lead. “I am happy we won at the end but the game was very tough. We had to make some changes, at some point it didn’t work,’’ said Museka. “Then, we had to change again and it worked for our side. But I am happy the girls did as we had expected. “We are all fighting to be in the top four so this win is very crucial to us, especially considering that Beta is a good team. “If we keep on playing well we will be in the top four but if we lose a game or two it means we are going to be out. “The (Beta Queens) coach is my mentor, so I am happy because he taught me how to do it. I think I am doing the right thing that he taught me.’’ Jani once again had a good day, scoring 41 goals, for her side to walk away with the golden hand. Gwekwe and Masiya weighed in with three goals each. Although they lost, Beta Queens had their moments and their wing defender Tinga Mukunganyi was player of the match. Coach Phillemon Mangwiro said lack of precision by his shooters let them down. He praised Mercy Chinyama for her contribution during game. “She (Mercy Chinyama) did well, I think she picked it up from Thursday’s game, she played well on Thursday and then it’s about confidence, you play with confidence, you take your shots and you are home and dry,” said Mangwiro.