The Herald A Tax Clearance Certificate (ITF 263) is a certificate issued by the Commissioner General of the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra) to a person liable to pay tax under any of the Acts administered by Zimra. The certificate is generated online by a person whose tax affairs are up-to-date or has made satisfactory tax compliance arrangements with Zimra. Benefits of having a Tax Clearance Certificate No 10 percent Withholding Tax is deducted when payments are made for goods and services supplied. No Presumptive Tax will be levied on importations. Tax clearance is required when bidding for tenders. A Tax Clearance Certificate is a pre-requisite when applying for licences issued by local authorities. Business counterparts have confidence in doing business with compliant taxpayers What you need in order to access the Tax Clearance Certificate on line? The client must have furnished all statutory returns required to be submitted under all Acts administered by Zimra, or made satisfactory arrangements with Zimra for the furnishing of such returns. The client must have paid the taxes due in terms of all the Acts administered by Zimra. Clients with outstanding taxes, penalties and interest must make suitable arrangements, which are approved by Zimra. Value Added Tax (VAT) registered clients must have their systems interfaced with Zimra servers under the fiscalisation programme. However, tax clearance certificates may be availed to clients who have made noticeable efforts to get interfaced. How to access a Tax Clearance Certificate online? The Tax Clearance Certificate is accessible on the Zimra e-services portal using the following steps: Log on to the e-services portal http://efiling.zimra.co.zw Click on “Manage Services” and select “Submissions” Click the arrow on “General Tax Clearance” Click “Submit” Allow a few seconds for the system to update the status Click “My History” then “My Submissions” to check for your Tax Clearance Certificate If status says “Committed”, it means you have successfully obtained an online tax clearance certificate (ITF 263) Click “View Document” to view and print the Tax Clearance Certificate (ITF 263) If the status is “Failed” then contact the nearest Zimra office for assistance How to verify Tax Clearance Certificate validity If in doubt about the authenticity of a Tax Clearance Certificate, you can validate the Tax Clearance Certificate on Zimra’s e-services portal as well by following the steps below: Type http://efiling.zimra.co.zw on your Internet browser Under e-services, click on “Validate Tax Certificate” Enter the Business Partner Number (BPN) on the tax certificate in the BPN field Enter the “Authentication Code” as it appears on the tax certificate in the code field Type the “Code” for the image as shown in the field available Click “Verify Certificate” For a valid Tax Clearance Certificate, the details that will appear on the Internet page are the same as those on the Certificate being verified. My Taxes, My Duties: Building my Zimbabwe!! Disclaimer: This article was compiled by the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority for information purposes only. Zimra shall not accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from use of material in this article and no liability will attach to the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority.  To contact ZIMRA: WhatsApp line                            :+263 782 729 862 Visit our website                        :  www. zimra.co.zw Follow us on Twitter  :  @Zimra_11 Like us on Facebook :   www.facebook.com/ZIMRA.11 Send us an e-mail :  pr@zimra.co.zw/webmaster@zimra.co.zw Call us (Head Office: 04 –758891/5; 790813; 790814; 781345; 751624; 752731  e-TIP  : http://ecustoms.zimra.co.zw/etip/ 