The Herald When we think about our offices or workplaces, fitness is not necessarily the first thing that comes to mind. Many of us spend our days sitting at our desks looking at computer screens. We may even have lunch at our desks. Encouraging fitness in the workplace can be extremely beneficial. The endorphins released during exercise mean that employees have more self-confidence and energy, and more positive attitudes when at work. They are less stressed too. Exercise increases productivity in the workplace by boosting mental alertness and reducing staff errors. When you exercise you are also increasing the blood flow to your brain, which helps sharpen your awareness and makes you better prepared to tackle your next big project. When an organisation has fit employees, it is likely there will be less downtime, as the number of staff members calling in sick is significantly reduced. There are many ways for employers to encourage their staff to keep fit, regardless of a company’s size. Zimnat makes life better for employees by providing a platform for Zumba and Taebo exercise on Wednesdays from 5pm to 6pm. Zimnat also hosts events linked to fitness such as the charity marathon held last year. Showing employees that you care about their fitness levels is a great way to boost morale. It demonstrates to employees and colleagues that their health and wellbeing is important to the company they work  for. Below are a few benefits of exercise: It pumps up your endorphins, relieving stress and increasing energy levels. It improves your mood, making you happier. It helps with weight loss. It is good for your muscles and bones. It can help with skin health. Zimnat is a diversified financial group operating in Zimbabwe and associated with Sanlam South Africa, the largest non-banking financial services group on the continent. Zimnat has four business units, namely Zimnat General Insurance, Zimnat Life Assurance, Zimnat Financial Services and Zimnat Asset Management.  Contact us today on our toll-free number 08080063/4/6. Alternatively, you can send us an email on customercare@zimnat.co.zw. You can also visit our website, www.zimnat.co.zw, or https://www.facebook.com/Zimnat/, https://twitter.com/zimnatofficial or https://zw.linkedin.com/company/zimnat 