The Herald Statutory Instrument (SI) 52 of 2019 was promulgated on March 8, 2019 to provide for a rebate of duty on motor vehicles imported by Civil Servants and members of the Service Commission with effect from January 1, 2019. Who qualifies for the rebate A serving public Servant of Zimbabwe who has been in the Civil Service Commission for a period of not less than ten years and not undergoing any disciplinary proceeding. What kind of vehicles qualify under this rebate The rebate shall apply to vehicles principally designed for transport of persons such as sedans, double cabs, extra cabs and pickup trucks. Who qualifies for the rebate? Senior Public servant of Zimbabwe who has been in the Civil Service or Service Commission for a period of not less than 10 years Conditions for grant of rebate Vehicle to be procured using a loan from CMED transport Purchase Fund or Serving Senior Public own resources Vehicle intended solely for the private use of the Serving Senior Public Servant and not for commercial or trade purposes The vehicle should be under 10 years old when it is imported or taken out of bond The maximum import value (Cost Insurance and Freight) (VDP) should be US$10 000 The senior servant should have served for a continuous period of not less than 10 years in the Public Service The rebate shall be granted on one vehicle once in five years Principal Directors and equivalent, Directors and equivalent and Deputy Directors and equivalent The maximum amounts that can be accessed from CMED for Principal Directors and equivalent, Directors and equivalent and Deputy Directors and equivalent are as follows:   equivalent Conditions for grant of the rebate Vehicle to be procured using a loan from CMED transport Purchase Fund Vehicle intended solely for the private use not for commercial or trade purposes The vehicle should be under 10 years old when it is imported or taken out of bond The maximum import value (Cost Insurance and freight) (VDP) should be as per maximum amounts stipulated in the table above. The rebate shall be granted on one vehicle once in five years Documentation required for  both Senior Public Servants and Directors An application letter to be considered as a beneficiary. A letter from the responsible Permanent Secretary of the applicant’s line ministry  confirming employment. A copy of the intended beneficiary who is a public servant’s driver’s  licence. A proforma invoice/commercial invoice or any other document pertaining to the acquisition and transportation of the vehicle. A letter of approval from CMED Private Limited for the loan, in the case of funding from CMED Transport Purchase Fund. A letter from the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development recommending the grant of the rebate, in the case of vehicles with a maximum import value of US$10 000 imported by senior public servants. Disclaimer: This article was compiled by the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority for information purposes only. Zimra shall not accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from use of material in this article and no liability will attach to the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority.  To contact Zimra: WhatsApp line :+263 782 729 862 Visit our website: www. zimra.co.zw Follow us on Twitter: @Zimra_11 Like us on Facebook: www.facebook.com/ZIMRA.11 Send us an e-mail:  pr@zimra.co.zw/webmaster@zimra.co.zwCall us (Head Office) : 0242–758891/5; 790813; 790814; 781345; 751624; 752731 e-TIP : http://ecustoms.zimra.co.zw/etip/ 