The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HARARE giants Dynamos, who have not won a league match in two months, believe they could have got the kind of stimulus they desperately needed ahead of the clash against Manica Diamonds on Wednesday. The Glamour Boys have drawn more than half the games they have played after 27 rounds this season. DeMbare coach Tonderai Ndiraya told The Herald their 1-0 victory over a youthful Highlanders in the Anti-Sanctions Challenge match at the National Sports Stadium on Friday was good for their confidence. “It gave us confidence, most importantly, going into our next match. I think the immediate match is the one which is more important. “We are playing Manica Diamonds next Wednesday and I think this victory will give us confidence. “I am hoping that we can be spurred on by this victory going into the last round of matches,” said Ndiraya. Ironically, the team is unbeaten in the last 15 league games. But, of those games, Dynamos have only managed to get four wins while 11 games have ended in draws. The run has unsettled most of the DeMbare faithful who feel the club could have been in a challenging position had they managed to convert some of the draws into victories. Dynamos are currently seventh on the log standings with 38 points in the bag. They are 12 points away from log leaders CAPS United who lead the race on 50 points. They face a difficult road in the homestretch which include the big match against Highlanders coming up next weekend, Chapungu, Black Rhinos, CAPS United, Harare City and Triangle. DeMbare last won a league match on August 28 when they edged Herentals 3-2 at Rufaro. Ndiraya believes the prolonged dry spell had badly affected his team’s confidence. “Of course, it had to be broken on this occasion and that makes it sweeter. From a technical point we had to give some of our fringe players a run and to mix with the seniors, of course, with the next match in mind. “I am quite happy with the performance although I would have wanted more. “What was important was the win so that we bring back the confidence not just to the players but the team as a whole,” said Ndiraya.