The Herald Robert Mutsauki Special Correspondent THE news of Artwell Mandaza’s untimely demise has been received with profound sadness and grief by all of us within the Zimbabwean athletics family. The fact that we knew that our colleague had not been well for sometime does not make it any easier for us to accept this great loss. Mandaza was a strong pillar in our sport over several decades — from being the most outstanding sprinter in this country, to a very successful coach and competent administrator. The reason why he did not realise his full potential as an athlete can be put down to the fact that he was born “at the wrong time.” He became a victim of the colonial era. I got my first athletics coaching lessons from him in the mid-80s when I was still a sprinter competing in the colours of the ZRP Athletics Club. I turned to him when I wanted to try my hand at coaching and he readily took me under his wing and roof when I stayed with him, and his family, in Bindura for a month learning the ropes. This is when I really got to know and appreciate what a wonderful person Mandaza was away from the limelight of the athletics track. He was down-to-earth and full of wisdom. By the time I was awarded a scholarship to study athletics coaching at the University of Mainz in Germany in 1986, I had already had the sound grounding and a coaching manual from my mentor. He should get credit for the first class coaching diploma I brought back. On my return from Germany I worked under Mandaza, who was then National Director of Coaching, when I became the national event coach for sprints and relays. While I was at that stage armed with a coaching diploma, I benefited from Mandaza’s vast coaching experience. The other national event coaches he ably led at the time included Ian Harries, Bernard Dzoma, Derah Magodo (both late) and Mathew Mafiro. Mandaza successfully coached and managed many athletics teams to World Championships, Commonwealth and Olympic Games. In the run-up to the 1995 All-Africa Games (held here in Zimbabwe) when I was president of the then Amateur Athletics Association of Zimbabwe (AAAZ), we put our faith in Mandaza, our own expert, to be head coach of the athletics team. Others wanted a Cuban coach. We believed Mandaza was a competent coach who was familiar with the local athletes and their environment and that, given time and financial resources, he could deliver to expectations. If we had engaged the Cuban, who would have been given credit for the best ever performance by athletics at the All-Africa Games (7 medals: 1 gold; 2 silver; 4 bronze)? When COJA Zimbabwe ‘95 requested the AAAZ to nominate a deserving athlete to light the flame during the opening ceremony, we did not need to scratch our heads deliberating on that. This was a God-given opportunity for the nation to honour him and he truly appreciated the recognition and honour bestowed on him. He was later included among the first Zimbabwe Sports Hall of Fame inductees together with luminaries like footballer George “Master Mind” Shaya, the late boxer Langton “Schoolboy” Tinago, cricketer Dave Houghton, golfer Nick Price and the women’s field hockey “Golden Girls”. A few years ago Mandaza was also befittingly invited as guest of honour to the Annual National Sports Awards where he delivered the key note address. It was on that day I last met him face-to-face and he told me he was planning to start an athletics academy in his rural home of Chiweshe, having been allocated a sizeable piece of land for the purpose, by the local chief. Mandaza wanted me to work with him on that noble project, given my background with the Millennium Athletics Academy, although I was still based in Abuja, Nigeria, working for Anoca at the time. Although I readily agreed to collaborate with him I regret the fact that we never got to concretise this initiative as it could have gone a long way in cementing the legacy of this great legend. I have yet to come across a man or woman who is more passionate about athletics in Zimbabwe. He was an inspiration to many and his humility put many arrogant “pseudo champions” to shame. He recorded many achievements, particularly in terms of nurturing athletics talent, and his late son Wellington became a national hurdles champion. Artwell . . . you not only ran your race well but you also served as a good role model for many of us. You epitomised the concept of servant leadership and we hope to emulate your good works. Rest in Eternal Peace . . . son of the soil. Robert Mutsauki is the former president of the Amateur Athletics Association of Zimbabwe (now National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe) and ex-chief executive of the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee.