The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
CAPS United have said winning the Castle Lager championship is all that matters for them this season. The Green Machine opened a five-point lead at the top last week and their coach Darlington Dodo yesterday said their focus was on grabbing the big one. They host Hwange at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. “We are actually better than last week, in terms of playing personnel, because we have got some players who were out through injuries but are now back,’’ said Dodo. “I think we are good to go. It is very important (to maintain the momentum). We have been preaching this same gospel to the players. “One good thing about these players is that they know what they want to achieve and you can tell by the way they perform their duties in training and the spirit in the game. “I am very positive we will not take this game against Hwange lightly. We will give it our best. “We have to keep grinding results and forget about what is happening elsewhere. “We need to play our games. By so doing, I think, we will enhance our chances of achieving what we want to achieve.’’ Defending champions FC Platinum, who host Yadah at Mandava tomorrow, and Chicken Inn, are also firmly in the race. The Gamecocks could cancel out each other with Black Rhinos at the giant stadium. The Green Machine were this week boosted by the return of skipper Hardlife Zvirekwi and Clive Rupiya from injuries. Veteran Method Mwanjali, who has been one of the league’s best players this season, is also available for selection after missing the 2-1 win at Mushowani. But midfielder Kudzanayi Nyamupfukudza and Justice Jangano are out because of suspension. Exciting young forward, Kelvin Ndebele, could also be rested this weekend as a precaution. He limped off the pitch after scoring the opening goal in the win at Trojan. “The boy was not playing regularly so he is bound to suffer from fatigue in his muscles,’’ said Dodo. “Football is a pressure game. Whether you are at the bottom like Yadah, at the top like us or in the middle like Dynamos, there is always pressure but it all depends on how you manage it.’’ Fixtures Tomorrow: Harare City v Mushowani Stars (Rufaro) Black Rhinos v Chicken Inn (NSS) Highlanders v Tel One (Barbourfields) Manica Diamonds v ZPC Kariba Vengere) FC Platinum v Yadah (Mandava) Ngezi Platinum v Dynamos (Baobab) Sunday: CAPS United v Hwange (NSS) Bulawayo Chiefs v Triangle United (Luveve) Chapungu v Herentals (Ascot)