The Herald Nash Paints has been part of the Graniteside scene since opening the Zambezi branch in Kelvin Road South in 2008. We moved to 55 Kelvin Road North in 2012 and then into the Powerspeed Complex in 2014. The move to our current headquarters at 41 Kelvin Road North was made in December 2016. At our headquarters in Kelvin Road North, we manufacture and sell PVA, gloss enamel and alkyd-based decorative paints, as well as roof coatings, weather resistant outdoor paint and indoor textured and metallic paints. We have recently reduced the prices of our decorative paints by 20 percent so that our customers, both old and new, can save money and beautify their surroundings, be it their homes, their offices, their schools — in fact anywhere that could use a lick of paint. We can even do the painting for you, using our teams of specialist painters. As well as our decorative paints, we have specialised finishes for wood, including catalysed wood lacquers, wood varnishes, wood stains and wood fillers. Nash Paints are automotive paint specialists, manufacturing and selling base coat paints, 2K paints, nitrocellulose paints as well as primers, hardeners, body fillers and top coats.  Everything a panel-beater and spray painter requires is available under one roof. Nash is a one-stop-shop for all painting and painting accessories. Added to our discounts offered on decorative paints, we are also running our Pop-A-Balloon And Win promotion. Come into any of our branches nationwide, spend US$70 equivalent and get to pop a balloon. Every balloon contains a prize, ranging from pens to caps, t-shirts, painting accessories, all the way up to spray guns. Working in conjunction with micro-finance companies, we are able to offer paints on credit to approved customers. Nash Paints are ISO 9001:2015 certified and also play a role in the community with our corporate social responsibility programme. We live by our motto #benicefornoprice. Come into Nash Paints where we will excite, delight and deliver our winning paint solutions for your every need. Nash Paints is one of the leading paint companies in Zimbabwe with a wide branch network, including branches in Zambia and Botswana