The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter
OVER 200 delegates from across the world are expected to converge in Victoria Falls for the inaugural Premier Soccer League annual international symposium which begins today. Experts from FIFA, CAF and COSAFA will dish out lectures at the workshop to be attended by top-flight and lower division clubs from the country. FIFA’s Safety and Security Manager, Lee Davidson, will present a paper on Managing Security and Safety at sport events. Davidson is a security guru who was in charge of safety during the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup. Other speakers include World Leagues Forum secretary-general, Jerome Perlemuter, and Spanish La Liga Global Network Delegate in South Africa, Enrique Suay. Swiss Football League chief legal officer, Marc Juillerat, South African Premier Soccer League general league counsel, Michael Murphy, and Hyde Sport marketing director, Cameron Calder. The Premiership said the experts were seconded by their organisations and will not be paid a fee with the league only taking care of their accommodation. Concerns had been raised if the PSL did not believe in the quality of African, or local, experts who had a better understanding, and appreciation, of the domestic conditions than their European counterparts. The PSL said it was likely that local experts would have demanded a fee for their services. League spokesperson, Kudzai Bare, said they were confident the local teams will change the way they operate after the two-day workshop. “We are expecting over 200 delegates at this year’s PSL International Football Symposium,’’ said Bare. “The fact that this is the inaugural edition means 200 participants are a lot. “This is our own way of trying to address some issues which we think haven’t been done to the required standards. “We invited teams and leaders from the whole Southern African region and most of them confirmed their participation. “There are top-notch speakers who will deliver lectures. “Basically, all is set and we hope delegates will learn some fundamentals of football development, among other issues.” She said registration hasn’t yet been closed and stakeholders, who were willing to attend, were free to do so. “Registration has not closed as yet. There is still room for those who still want to come to attend the event. “It’s in the best interests of sport administrators and clubs as well as the country to attend events of this magnitude.” All the 18 PSL clubs, as well as ambitious Division One teams, are expected to send representatives to the conference.