The Herald Tadious Manyepo  Sports Reporter RUSUNUNGUKO High School shrugged off stiff competition from 12 other teams to be crowned the 2019 Proton-Surrey national Under-20 champions at Marondera High yesterday. The Mashonaland East provincial representatives beat Harare’s Mt Pleasant High 10-9 on penalties after their pulsating final ended goalless in regulation time. For good measure, the Goromonzi-based school, whose team was composed virtually of all the players who won the Nash Copa-Coca-Cola in 2017, didn’t concede a goal in all their matches from the group stages. They survived a scare in the semi-final before beating  Masvingo Province’s Gutu High on penalties after a goalless stalemate. Mt Pleasant dumped hosts Marondera High 2-0 in the other semi-final. The tournament, which is bankrolled jointly by Proton Bakers and Surrey Group, is in its third year. Rusununguko High coach Joseph Madzinga hailed his charges following their success story. Madzinga has now won Nash tournaments in all age groups after also guiding the Goromonzi institution to success in the Under-15 (2017) and Under-17. “This is the same team which won the Copa Coca-Cola in 2017. They also went on to win the Nash Under-17 tournament last year and here we are again,” he said. Surrey Group national sales manager Ranganayi Zihumo challenged scouts to grace tournaments of this nature. “Just look at the level of talent which these young boys have. It was like we were watching veterans of the game. “I think scouts should spare a moment to watch schools football as they can be assured of getting some good players,” said Zihumo. Proton Bakers chief sales manager Daniel Chipato, said plans were underway to incorporate other sporting disciplines from next year. “We are definitely going to sponsor girls soccer next year. We are also considering taking on board other sport codes.’’ A top South Africa-based Zimbabwean scout Eric Bafana was in attendance. He shortlisted several players, including player of the tournament Oscar Magejo of Rusununguko High. Other teams which took part were Mpopoma High, Rio Tinto Zhombe, Kondo High, Taholotsho High, Chibi High, Mutambara High, Gwanda High and Rotterview College.