The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter
Twenty-year-old local film producer Daniel Lasker has been shortlisted to participate at the Hollywood Silverscreen Festival to be held at Warner Grand Theatre in Los Angeles, United States of America, on October 13. Lasker, a member of Zimbabwe Film Industry Development Platform (ZFIDP) will see his film titled “The Man” being premièred among other films and movies globally. The festival attempts to cultivate spaces for independent filmmakers to create and display their stories without commercial pressure, in order to discover and celebrate extraordinary films and develop independent film-making. Lasker’s film, “The Man” centres on two hired thugs tasked with the disposing of a dead body in secluded woods. When the supposed dead man turns out to be still alive, they find themselves dealing with more than they bargained. The film will be premièred for the first time in US. In an interview, Lasker said he was excited to be among international and renowned filmmakers taking part at the festival. The young filmmaker said it was his dream come true as it was the first time for him to visit the US. “I am excited and grateful to have been selected to represent the country with my film at the festival. I have put a lot of hard work into my projects, and it’s a great privilege to have my work represent my homeland,” he said. He said that he believes the most important thing that local film industry needs is to improve on first, is respecting filmmakers. “Film-making is such a rich, extensive craft, which is incredibly difficult to master. “Filmmakers need to spend more time researching and learning as much as they can about the craft, before they attempt to make full films,” he said. Asked who his role model was, Lasker said he owes it to a lot of people. “I don’t have one main role model, because there are so many amazing artistes out there who inspire me. I am much motivated by the works of Leonard DiCaprio, Joaquin Phoenix, Martin Scorsese and David Fincher among others. “People often ask me, how I make my films look so good to which the answer is always the same. “I have spent years teaching myself how to do it. I’ve spent countless hours practicing and refining my craft, listening to and learning from the filmmakers who inspire me,” he explained. Meanwhile, ZFIDP chairperson Anthony Mutambira has applauded work done by Lasker and was hopeful that he will represent the country well at the festival. 