The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter
STANFORD ‘‘Stix’’ Mutizwa says Hamid Dhana, who died in Harare on Sunday and is likely to be cremated on Friday, was one of the finest midfielders to grace domestic football. Mutizwa played alongside Dhana at Black Rhinos where, in one of their finest hours, they beat Zambian club Power Dynamos in the Champions League. “I first played against him when he was at Arcadia and I was at CAPS United,’’ said Mutizwa. ‘‘Then we met at Black Rhinos during the formation of Rhinos in 1982. I was part of the formation but, unfortunately, didn’t play due to contractual issues with CAPS United until 1984. ‘‘We played in the Champions League and I remember we beat Power Dynamos and we were the first team to beat them (in Zambia) and made history. ‘‘They had nine players who were in the national team, the likes of the Musonda brothers Emy and Michael, Alex Chola, Peter Kaumba and Lucky Msiska. ‘‘The team was coached by Praise Mwila, Zambian first export who played at Aston Villa. We won 2-0 in Lusaka and drew 1-1 at home to qualify for the quarter-finals. “I had a terrific combination with Joel Shambo in midfield at CAPS but l went on to have a similar combination with Dhana. “As Black Rhinos Legends we are saddened by the death of one of us. I would like to thank wife Brigit for supporting him throughout his long illness. She did a great job.’’ Another former player Charlie White, who is based in the United Kingdom, said Dhana was a multi-talented footballer. “Sad to hear the untimely death of Hamid Dhana. He was a multi-talented player when we were at Morgan High. ‘‘Apart from playing football, he played cricket, basketball and tennis. He would have excelled at any sport except for rugby and athletics. “He was also good pals with ex-DeMbare players from Arcadia, Peter Sanderson and Dexter Rawson. We played together at Morgan High and Arcadia,” said White. Former Black Aces and Chapungu linkman Moses “Gwejegweje” Chasweka said the legend still had a lot to contribute to football. “He still had years to contribute something to football, especially now that Arcadia is back in the lower leagues. He was very humble and accessible. He was always smiling. May his dear soul rest in peace,” said Chasweka. ZIFA also sent their condolence message. Dhana died on the same day as former Highlanders star, Charles ‘‘Chief’’ Chilufya, who passed away in Zambia. “The Zimbabwe Football Association joins the nation in mourning the passing of legendary former footballers, Hamid “Muzukuru” Dhana and Charles ‘Chief’ Chilufya on 29 September,’’ ZIFA said in a statement. ‘‘Chilufya played for Premier Soccer League sides Hwange FC, Railstars FC and Highlanders FC and was one of the key players in the CAF Champions League then under Eddie May. ‘‘Together with the likes of Zenzo Moyo, Joel Luphahla, Thabani Masawi, Amon Chimbalanga, Bekithemba Ndlovu and Tapiwa Kapini, they changed the face of the top-flight with their ‘never say never spirit.’ ‘‘Dhana played for Dynamos, Arcadia, Black Rhinos FC and the national team, forming fearsome combinations with various players. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families.’’ The Sports Commission also sent their condolence message. 