The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe are set to take over a project which was being run by iconic sprinter Artwell Mandaza in Chiweshe. Mandaza died on Monday at the age of 73. He will be buried at his rural home at Nzvimbo Village in Chiweshe this afternoon. The “Mhangura Meteor,” as Mandaza was affectionately known, had been given a piece of land to nurture rural talent by traditional authorities in Chiweshe. There were fears the project would collapse following his death. But NAAZ vice-president Enias Nhoro yesterday reaffirmed his association’s commitment to keeping the project alive. “It is something that, as an association, we would like to seriously consider,’’ he said. “This is one project we would like to remember Artwell Mandaza with. “He will be happy wherever he will be seeing the association trying to push forward his vision. “He pioneered a whole lot of projects in this country and it is the responsibility of the association to make sure that the Chiweshe project lives beyond all of us. “We will get the necessary information and sit down with the traditional leaders on the ground who will help us going forward.” Mandaza rose to fame in 1970 when he ran a world record-equalling time of 9,9 seconds in the 100 metres in the South African Bantu Championships in Welkom. Although not recognised that time, it was the world’s joint fastest alongside the time set by Cuban Pablo Montes. But the official best time attached to the Zimbabwean in 100m was 10,2 seconds which put him as the 11th fastest athlete in the world in 1970. He was voted the Sportsperson of the Year that very year, becoming the first black person to win that honour. He also broke the 100m, 200m and 400m records. Born on January 4, 1946, Mandaza never took athletics seriously until he was 20 when Mhangura Mine coach Dave Klinker spotted him. In 1972, Mandaza was sent for an attachment in Germany and qualified for the Olympics in Munich. The country was barred from taking part in that showcase. He went head to head in a race against a horse at Borrowdale Race Course in 1983. Interestingly, by then, he had already quit active athletics and was coaching at Trojan Mine. He raced Hi Chester, a juvenile champion, ridden by Gordon Whyte and the event also acted as a fund-raising event for Team Zimbabwe headed for the Los Angeles Olympics.