The Herald Arts Reporter
ORGANISERS of the third edition of The Braai OutZw slated for November 2 at Kingfisher Park in the capital have added more names on the list of artistes expected to performing at the fete, that will see the event running from morning until midnight. They also indicated that they were currently chasing signatures of international artistes, who will perform as guests at the event. “Remember this is the third edition, meaning we have to make the event grow bigger and better. We cannot manage to place the same activities that we used to have at the infancy of the festival on our chart. “We have to defeat monotony hence the idea of roping a number of local artistes who will share the stage with international artistes whom we are currently in talks with,” said Nigel Chinovhiringa, the event organiser. “We are proud to have Jah Prayzah, Sasha and Talking Guitars, DJ Ashy Stylz and Nivek MercilessZim, Chamvary from Power FM among others. “Our aim is to keep the brand growing and make sure people have fun in a friendly environment. There will be an assortment of activities to try and cater for everyone who attends the show. “Jah Prayzah’s son, Mukudzei Jnr, will lead kids’ entertainment while other family activities will be lined up for the day. What is more interesting is that all the food will be sold at gazetted prices. There will be plenty of meat, beer and other things on sale meaning everything will be sold at ‘pump price’ on the day,” he said. Nigel revealed that they also beefed up security for both people who will attend the event and their possessions. He said they want to achieve a crime free environment that will see people enjoy without fear of losing their belongings or be injured in a criminal related manner. “The previous edition recorded zero criminal record as confirmed by the police. This is the same scenario that we want to achieve on November 2. “People should enjoy without expressing fears of losing properties like their cars and other valuables to thieves. We want to create a refreshing mood as people kicks-start their festive season,” he said.