The Herald MADRID (AFP) – Lionel Messi made it clear he is fit and back to his scintillating best by tearing apart Real Valladolid on Tuesday night in a thumping 5-1 victory for Barcelona. Messi scored another spell-binding free-kick at Camp Nou after his sumptuous pass had already teed up Arturo Vidal for Barca’s second. He then drove home his second late on before sliding through Luis Suarez to make it five. Yet in truth his two goals and two assists were just the start of it, the defining moments of another mesmeric all-round performance that was dotted with flicks, passes and dribbles, not to mention two humiliating nutmegs. “I don’t know what more I can say,” said Barcelona coach Ernesto Valverde. “There were wonders coming out of his foot,” said Valladolid’s Michel. “You can only applaud and enjoy it.” Valladolid had threatened to make a game of it when Kiko Olivas benefitted from a rare Marc-Andre ter Stegen error to equalise, after Clement Lenglet had struck in the second minute. But with Messi in this sort of mood, the result never felt in doubt as victory sent Barcelona back to the top of La Liga, after Atletico Madrid were held to a 1-1 draw by Alaves a couple of hours before. Valverde’s side have now won seven consecutive matches in all competitions, a run that began by beating Villarreal on September 24, when Messi returned from injury to make his first start of the season. He has needed time, admitting earlier this month he was still short of sharpness even as goals flew in against Sevilla, Eibar and Slavia Prague. But this display sent a resounding message that Messi is back to his best even if Valverde feels there is more to come. “He is still getting back to full fitness,” Valverde said. “But he is getting better and better.” Valladolid were perhaps unfortunate the 32-year-old was fresh after the postponed Clasico on Saturday meant Barcelona and Real Madrid were given the weekend off. It meant this was the first game at Camp Nou since violent protests broke out across Catalonia after nine pro-independence leaders were sentenced to imprisonment on October 21. Giant yellow banners with “Independencia” and “Llibertat” written across them were unfurled before kick-off but there was no sign of unrest. Instead, the mood turned celebratory as Messi got to work.