The Herald Senior Arts Reporter South Africa-based Zimbabwean information technology guru Tawanda Hove has developed a new application and website  called “Clubz365.com” that facilitates interraction between tourists, club patrons and club owners to promote tourism and flow of entertainment activities. The application will also serve as an advertising and marketing platform for club owners. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Hove said the application will work as a guide to tourists who want to visit local clubs. “It will be easy for people visiting the country to locate clubs of their tastes by using the application. They will have an idea of how nightlife in their city of destination is like,” he said. “For club owners, your budget for advertising will be reduced extremely as the application will be your advertising board and also gives you information about what your competitors are doing,” he said. He said the subscription for the application was US$100 per year. “Every time they have an event, they upload it on the website and an alert is sent to the application to see what is happening,” he said. “Most club owners are still dependent on posters and billboards while their clients, who are also millenniums, are spending most of their time online,” he said. Hove, who is inspired by Travis Kalanick, founder of the popular Uber, said he got the idea of coming up with the application after having a hard time finding a good club when he returned home. “One day, I came back home for Christmas holiday and wanted to go out with friends. I realised that most of the clubs we used to go to in the 90s were closed down. We started driving around Gweru and its outskirts looking for a place to hang out. So I thought to myself, why not have an application that will show people the clubs around instead of wasting time driving around and here it is,” he explained. He later pleaded with investors or partners to come on board to fund the promotion of the application which can be downloaded on Google PlayStore.