The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
VETERAN administrator and former Zimbabwe international cricketer, Angus James Mackay, is excited by his appointment as chief executive of Cricket Scotland. The 52-year-old, who played three One-Day internationals for Zimbabwe, is keen on helping one of ICC’s top Associates in their quest for full membership. Mackay has 17 years of experience in sports management, including with Worcester Warriors and Surrey County Cricket Club, where he was managing director. He also had a stint with Leicestershire County Cricket Club. Mackay was also general manager of Mashonaland Cricket before he left the country just over a decade ago. “This is an exciting time for the game in Scotland and I am delighted to have been appointed chief executive of Cricket Scotland,’’ he said. “I have been impressed with the clear vision, strategy and, more importantly, commitment of the Board to achieve Full Member Status of the International Cricket Council. “This will help us achieve our vision to make cricket mainstream in Scotland and thereby ensure the long term sustainability of the game here. “Clearly, cricket in Scotland is progressing in the right direction for both the men’s and women’s game, as demonstrated by the ICC rankings, while Scotland is regarded as one of the top Associate Countries. “I look forward to working with all the stakeholders involved in the game from colleagues, clubs, schools, regional associations, supporters, volunteers and commercial partners to drive a bottom-up approach to achieving our goals in the new strategy. “These are exciting times for everyone involved in our great game in Scotland and I really look forward to getting started.’’ Mackay replaced Malcolm Cannon, who retired in July after four years in the position. He will assume official duties on October 21. Mackay was born and brought up in Zimbabwe but has strong Scottish roots. He played for Zimbabwe Colts in England in 1984 and then Zimbabwe Schools. In 1986 he spent a year at Essex before being sidelined with a serious ankle injury. He then joined English Midlands club sides Barnt Green and West Bromwich before making his first-class debut in 1998-99 at the age of 31. Mackay won a call-up to the Zimbabwe ODI side which toured Australia and New Zealand in 2000-01. He played three ODIs for Zimbabwe in 2001 as a seam bowler. In his playing career, he took 75 wickets from 27 first-class games, and has one first-class century against his name, which came off just 45 balls. After his days were over, he was general manager of Mashonaland while working as a banker. In 2006 he was appointed as chief executive at Sussex. At the end of the 2008 season he moved to Surrey as managing director of cricket. Chairman of Cricket Scotland Tony Brian hailed Mackay’s appointment. “It is of great benefit for cricket that we have attracted someone of Gus’s calibre and experience to join us as our new chief executive,’’ said Brian. “He has wide experience of leading all aspects of sports from growing participation numbers and supporting clubs to running professional teams at a high level.’’