The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE Cricket chairman Tavengwa Mukuhlani, is confident the country will be embraced back into the International Cricket Council family when the game’s leadership hold their board meeting in Dubai next week. The ICC leadership are expected to meet next week, with Zimbabwe high on the agenda. A review of the suspension imposed on ZC membership three months ago will be discussed at that board meeting. Zimbabwe were given until this October to put their house in order or risk expulsion. The ICC had ruled the Sports and Recreation Commission breached their statutes when they suspended the ZC board led by Mukuhlani. The ZC and the SRC leaders, however, have since found each other following a series of meetings that also included the Minister of Sport Kirsty Coventry. “I think from what has been going on, you can appreciate that ZC and SRC have to a larger extent managed to find each other,’’ said Mukuhlani. “There has been constant communication and the Minister is well-briefed of what is happening. “We have done the best to iron out all the sticking points from both ends, and I think we have satisfied all the conditions spelt out by the ICC. “From that perspective, I am sure, the suspension will be lifted,” said Mukuhlani. Zimbabwe Cricket have endured a rough ride in the last three months after the ICC also froze funding for the domestic game and outlawed players and officials from taking part in all activities held under their banner. This resulted in both men and women’s teams missing out on the qualifiers for their T20 World Cup tournaments to be held next year. The Chevrons, who are usually starved of international games, were also dealt a big blow after India scrapped plans to host them early next year and replaced them with Sri Lanka. “It has been quite a difficult period for everyone. “There were missed opportunities to play international cricket, and the players and staff went for over three months without getting their salaries. “It was not easy to have the guys in camp and to fulfil the other international commitments they had during this period. “But everyone has been cooperative. They understood what we have been going through and we all agreed it has to come to an end. “So, we have been communicating with the ICC office on a regular basis. “They have made their position clear, they want Zimbabwe back. “They have been supporting Zimbabwe Cricket over the years and they want the game to thrive here. “But, they also made it clear they want an assurance that there won’t be interference in the running of the game. ZC has to be an autonomous body, in line with the international statutes,” said Mukuhlani.