The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Davis Cup tennis team captain Gwinyai Tongoona has welcomed the outcome of the 2020 Davis Cup World Group II Play-offs draw. The Zimbabwe team have been drawn against Syria. The 2020 Davis Cup World Group I and World Group II play-offs draws were held on Thursday at the International Tennis Federation offices in London. Zimbabwe, ranked 61, face Syria, ranked 92 and, in comparison with some of their previous opponents, Tongoona said it’s a favourable draw. The tie is scheduled for March next year, and Zimbabwe will be away to Syria, who will decide the venue for the encounter. It’s the first time the two nations are meeting in the Davis Cup tournament. “I think the draw is good for us. Looking at the rankings, I think we are favourites to pull through that one. “I have only seen one player from Syria in the ATP rankings. This should be an easier tie for us. But, obviously, we can’t take any team for granted at this level. “In terms of preparation, the players will be off-season in December then, before Davis Cup, they will be playing at different events,” said Tongoona. Zimbabwe’s last Davis Cup encounter was in April when they took on Romania in the Europe/Africa Group II and they lost 1-4. Tennis Zimbabwe administrator Cliff Nhokwara, agreed with Tongoona as he said the team stand a good chance of prevailing over Syria. “Every match is important and that’s why it has to be played,’’ he said. ‘But, we believe Syria does not exactly have the same strength as the likes of Poland and Romania, so, with that in mind and our ranking, I believe the odds are in our favour. “So, hopefully, we will go and win. We are likely to either play in Qatar or in Dubai because of turmoil in Syria. “It’s highly unlikely that we will play in Syria. But, obviously, the Syrians can always opt to play here (in Zimbabwe). So it’s up to them to decide. “They have not made that call, but it’s up to them to make that call,” said Nhokwara. Under the new structure, if Zimbabwe win in the World Group II play-offs, they will compete in the World Group I play-offs. But, if they lose, they will compete in Africa Group III.