The Herald Herald Reporter The following is the full text of a message from President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin to participants, organisers and guests of the Russia-Africa Economic Forum. “It gives me great pleasure to welcome you at the opening of the Russia–Africa Economic Forum. “The rich history of relations between Africa and Russia has never seen an event of a similar scale. Members of government agencies and business community, and experts are meeting at this Forum to substantively discuss the current status and prospects of cooperation and a wide range of topical issues of the world economy. “Today, the countries of Africa are well on their way towards social, economic, scientific and technological development, and are playing a significant role in international affairs. They are strengthening mutually beneficial integration processes within the African Union and other regional and sub regional organizations across the continent. “In recent years, the traditionally friendly ties of partnership between Russia and Africa have gained new momentum, both at a bilateral level and in various multilateral formats. “In addition to preserving our past experience of successful cooperation, we have also managed to make significant new steps forward. Trade and investment are growing dynamically, and new joint projects are under way in extractive industries, agriculture, healthcare, and education. Russian companies are ready to offer their scientific and technological developments to their African partners, and share their experience of upgrading energy, transport and communications infrastructures. “I hope that the Forum will help identify new areas and forms of cooperation, put forward promising joint initiatives that will bring the collaboration between Russia and Africa to a qualitatively new level and contribute to the development of our economies and the prosperity of our peoples. “I wish the Forum’s participants fruitful work and all the best.” The first Russia-Africa Economic Forum will be held in Sochi on October 23–24 2019 on the sidelines of the Russia-Africa Summit. The two events will be the largest of their kind in the history of Russia-Africa relations.