The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter FIVE local professional golfers will go into today’s National Aids Council Pro-Am golf tournament final round tied as leaders at one-under-par 71 at Chapman. The annual tournament teed off yesterday with 40 professionals taking part. The purse money is over $100 000. NAC are hosting the National Golf Day, which incorporate professionals and amateurs, for the fourth year now. They are trying to raise funds for five cervical cancer screening machines. Top golfers Brian Gondo, Tongo Charamba, Nyasha Muyambo, Trynos Muradzikwa and Tafara Mpofu are all tied on one-under-71 going into today’s round. Gondo has, of late, been playing some tournaments in South Africa while Charamba finished as the runner-up at the Uganda Open. Mpofu, who recently turned professional, is also gaining the much-needed exposure and experience by taking part in several Open tournaments within the region. Zimbabwe Professional Golfers Association president Garry Thompson is on sixth position on level par 72. Thompson did well in the Platinum Classic where he finished in the top five. Former Falcon Golf Club member Rogers Jack, who missed several tournaments through disciplinary issues, is making a comeback. He shot a two-over par going into today’s round. Jack is tied with Jack Allard, who is playing his first professional tournament, and Malawian Paul Chibale on seventh place. Bulawayo-based Allard turned professional on Tuesday, a few days after representing the nation at the All-Africa Championship in Mauritius where he was the team captain. Thompson said the turnout was encouraging. “We are having great golf from the boys and having five red numbers on the leaderboard speaks volumes of the competitiveness,’’ he said. ‘’We have a good field of over 40 professionals who are taking part in the fourth edition of this tournament. “It is also good to see some youngsters coming on board and doing well at the big stage and you can see Allard and Mpofu have done well.’’