The Herald Nyore Madzianike Senior Arts Reporter
MUSICIANS who participated in the Anti-Sanctions Gala held on Friday at the National Sports Stadium in Harare have described the event as purposeful after uniting to sing against the illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe by the West. Speaking on the sidelines of the gala, the musicians said the gala was a noble idea, although the number of people who turned for the whole-night event was disappointing for such a big event. “This is a national event where we have gathered for a purpose,” said dendera musician Tryson Chimbetu. “I am delighted to be part of this event. I would like to thank everyone who came through to support and be with us as we sing against the sanctions.” Tryson belted songs from his discography including the hit “Mai Maria”. ZORA music exponent Leonard Zhakata said he had to abandon some of his personal commitments to be part of the important national cause. “I was attending a seminar somewhere, but I saw it prudent to be part of this occasion,” he said. Zhakata gave a splendid performance and took his fans down the memory lane with his yesteryear hits. He gave a spirited performance that left many clamouring for more. Progress Chipfumo believed the “Sanctions must go” message haddreached its intended target after the gala. “I have seen that people came here with plenty of energy,” he said. “I am excited to note that people waited until morning, meaning the word has reached the targeted ears, who are also the reason why we are gathered here today. “It also shows the commitment among the people.” Beatrice-based sungura musician Simon Mutambi, who also gave a scintillating performance, said the gala gave artistes an opportunity to meet their fans from all corners of the country at one venue. “I am happy that today my  fans from across the country were at one place and they had an opportunity to have a taste of our music,” he said. “This is a rare opportunity and I would like to thank the organisers of this event for this opportunity.” Another sungura musician, Howard Pinjisi, thanked Goernment for giving them an opportunity to perform at the gala. Pinjisi said the gala united them as artistes. Other artistes who performed at the gala included Baba Harare, Sulumani Chimbetu, Freeman, Seh Calaz, Madlela Skhobokhobo, Machanic Manyeruke and Mbare Chimurenga Choir.